Rules of society are nothing  one's conscience is the umpire.
No matter how lovesick a woman is  she shouldn't take the first pill that comes along.
Form the habit of making decisions when your spirit is fresh ... to let dark moods lead is like choosing cowards to command armies.
One must either accept some theory or else believe one's own instinct or follow the world's opinion.
Decide which is the line of conduct that presents the fewest drawbacks and then follow it out as being the best one  because one never finds anything perfectly pure and unmixed  or exempt from danger.
A problem clearly stated is a problem half solved.
We must make the choices that enable us to fulfill the deepest capacities of our real selves.
Choose always the way that seems the best  however rough it may be  custom will soon render it easy and agreeable.
Where an opinion is general  it is usually correct.
In forty hours I shall be in battle  with little information  and on the spur of the moment will have to make the most momentous decisions. But I believe that one's spirit enlarges with responsibility and that  with God's help  I shall make them  and make them right.
Once the "what" is decided  the "how" always follows. We must not make the "how" an excuse for not facing and accepting the "what."
In each action we must look beyond the action at our past  present and future state  and at others whom it affects  and see the relation of all those things. And then we shall be very cautious.
One's mind has a way of making itself up in the background  and it suddenly becomes clear what one means to do.
Not all of your decisions will be correct. None of us is perfect. But if you get into the habit of making decisions  experience will develop your judgment to a point where more and more of your decisions will be right. After all  it is better to be right 51 percent of the time and get something done  than it is to get nothing done because you fear to reach a decision.
Decide on what you think is right  and stick to it.
Continually one faces the horrible matter of making decisions. The solution ... is  as far as possible  to avoid conscious rational decisions and choices  simply to do what you find yourself doing  to float in the great current of life with as little friction as possible  to allow things to settle themselves  as indeed they do with the most infallible certainty.
When making a decision of minor importance  I have always found it advantageous to consider all the pros and cons. In vital matters  however  such as the choice of a mate or a profession  the decision should come from the unconscious  from somewhere within ourselves. In the important decisions of personal life  we should be governed  I think  by the deep inner needs of our nature.
Pick battles big enough to matter  small enough to win.
Wisdom consists in being able to distinguish among dangers and make a choice of the least harmful.
I think we should follow a simple rule: if we can take the worst  take the risk.
Human foresight often leaves its proudest possessor only a choice of evils.
When one bases his life on principle  99 percent of his decisions are already made.
The best we can do is size up the chances  calculate the risks involved  estimate our ability to deal with them  and then make our plans with confidence.
In case of doubt  decide in favor of what is correct.
Each man must for himself alone decide what is right and what is wrong  which course is patriotic and which isn't. You cannot shirk this and be a man. To decide against your conviction is to be an unqualified and inexcusable traitor  both to yourself and to your country  let men label you as they may.
People "died" all the time. ... Parts of them died when they made the wrong kinds of decisions-decisions against life. Sometimes they died bit by bit until finally they were just living corpses walking around. If you were perceptive you could see it in their eyes  the fire had gone out ... you always knew when you made a decision against life. ... The door clicked and you were safe inside- safe and dead.
What I emphasize is for people to make choices based not on fear  but on what really gives them a sense of fulfillment.
We lose the fear of making decisions  great and small  as we realize that should our choice prove wrong we can  if we will  learn from the experience.
History is a stern judge.
I get a little angry about this highhanded scrapping of the look of things. What else have we to go by? How else can the average person form an opinion of a girl's sense of values or even of her chastity except by the looks of her conduct?
You wouldn't want to be caught wearing cheap perfume  would you? Then why do you want to wear cheap perfume on your conduct?
The difference between weakness and wickedness is much less than people suppose  and the consequences are nearly always the same.
Authority without wisdom is like a heavy axe without an edge  fitter to bruise than to polish.
One faces the future with one's past.
Our deeds still travel with us from afar  and what we have been makes us what we are.
You must not change one thing  one pebble  one grain of sand  until you know what good and evil will follow on that act.
The beginning of compunction is the beginning of a new life.
The Pilgrims didn't have any experience when they landed here. Hell  if experience was that important  we'd never have anybody walking on the moon.
Each person has a literature inside them. But when people lose language  when they have to experiment with putting their thoughts together on the spot-that's what I love most. That's where character lives.
There is no data on the future.
The most important fact about Spaceship Earth: an instruction book didn't come with it.
Life is the only art that we are required to practice without preparation  and without being allowed the preliminary trials  the failures and botches  that are essential for the training of a mere beginner.
Time has told me less than I need to know.
I learn by going where I have to go.
Life is like playing a violin in public and learning the instrument as one goes on.
We don't have enough time to premeditate all our actions.
Every year  if not every day  we have to wager our salvation upon some prophecy based upon imperfect knowledge.
Faith ... acts promptly and boldly on the occasion  on slender evidence.
A decision is an action you must take when you have information so incomplete that the answer does not suggest itself.
She knew in her heart that to be without optimism  that core of reasonless hope in the spirit  rather than the brain  was a fatal flaw  the seed of death.
When faith is supported by facts or by logic it ceases to be faith.
How far would Moses have gone if he had taken a poll in Egypt?
Better to be without logic than without feeling.
The will to be totally rational is the will to be made out of glass and steel: and to use others as if they were glass and steel.
In the three years I played ball  we won six  lost seventeen and tied two. Some statistician ... calculated that we won 75 percent of the games we didn't lose.
Imagination took the reins  and Reason  slow-paced  though surefooted  was unequal to a race with so eccentric and flighty a companion.
Many persons of high intelligence have notoriously poor judgement.
How dangerous can false reasoning prove!
The tendency of modern science is to reduce proof to absurdity by continually reducing absurdity to proof.
Say you were standing with one foot in the oven and one foot in an ice bucket. According to the percentage people  you would be perfectly comfortable.
Logic is the art of going wrong with confidence.
Reason  with most people  means their own opinions.
Logic pervades the world  the limits of the world are also the limits of logic.
Man is a reasoning  rather than a reasonable  animal.
False conclusions which have been reasoned out are infinitely worse than blind impulse.
If you do everything you should do  and do not do anything you should not do  you will  according to the best available statistics  live exactly eighteen hours longer than you would otherwise.
Decisions  particularly important ones  have always made me sleepy  perhaps because I know that I will have to make them by instinct  and thinking things out is only what other people tell me I should do.
Statistics are no substitute for judgement.
It is the heart always that sees before the head can see.
Facts are stubborn things  but statistics are more pliable.
A true history of human events would show that a far larger proportion of our acts are the result of sudden impulse and accident than of that reason of which we so much boast.
It is always thus  impaled by a state of mind which is destined not to last  that we make our irrevocable decisions.
A power greater than any human being helped make this decision.
He who reflects too much will achieve little.
The opportunity is often lost by deliberating.
The percentage of mistakes in quick decisions is no greater than in long-drawn-out vacillations  and the effect of decisiveness itself "makes things go" and creates confidence.
Deliberation often loses a good chance.
The mania of thinking renders one unfit for every activity.
When possible make the decisions now  even if action is in the future. A revised decision usually is better than one reached at the last moment.
We spend our days in deliberating  and we end them without coming to any resolve.
If you think too long  you think wrong.
You decide you'll wait for your pitch. Then as the ball starts toward the plate  you think about your stance. And then you think about your swing. And then you realize that the ball that went past you for a strike was your pitch.
The soul of dispatch is decision.
The moment a question comes to your mind  see yourself mentally taking hold of it and disposing of it. In that moment... you learn to become the decider and not the vacillator. Thus you build character.
So what do we do? Anything. Something. So long as we just don't sit there. If we screw it up  start over. Try something else. If we wait until we've satisfied all the uncertainties  it may be too late.
Often greater risk is involved in postponement than in making a wrong decision.
Some persons are very decisive when it comes to avoiding decisions.
Do not wait for ideal circumstances  nor the best opportunities  they will never come.
There comes a time when you've got to say  "Let's get off our asses and go ..." I have always found that if I move with 75 percent or more of the facts I usually never regret it. It's the guys who wait to have everything perfect that drive you crazy.
Conditions are never just right. People who delay action until all factors are favorable do nothing.
Common sense does not ask an impossible chessboard  but takes the one before it and plays the game.
He who postpones the hour of living is like the rustic who waits for the river to run out before he crosses.
If you wait for inspiration you'll be standing on the corner after the parade is a mile down the street.
Nothing at all will be attempted if all possible objections must first be overcome.
It is the characteristic excellence of the strong man that he can bring momentous issues to the fore and make a decision about them. The weak are always forced to decide between alternatives they have not chosen themselves.
Alternatives  and particularly desirable alternatives  grow only on imaginary trees.
The more one does and sees and feels  the more one is able to do  and the more genuine may be one's own appreciation of fundamental things like home  and love  and understanding companionship.
Our danger is not too few  but too many options ... to be puzzled by innumerable alternatives.
The absence of alternatives clears the mind marvelously.
I couldn't claim that I have never felt the urge to explore evil  but when you descend into hell you have to be very careful.
If decisions were a choice between alternatives  decisions would come easy. Decision is the selection and formulation of alternatives.
You cannot have your cake and eat it.
It is better to arm and strengthen your hero  than to disarm and enfeeble your foe.
You cannot sell the cow and sup the milk.
There is only one answer to destruc-tiveness and that is creativity.
A door must either be shut or open.
Here's a rule I recommend. Never practice two vices at once.
You cannot serve God and Mammon.
Between two stools one sits on the ground.
When you cannot make up your mind between two evenly balanced courses of action  choose the bolder.
When confronted with two courses of action I jot down on a piece of paper all the arguments in favor of each one  then on the opposite side I write the arguments against each one. Then by weighing the arguments pro and con and cancelling them out  one against the other  I take the course indicated by what remains.
There are two ways of spreading light: to be the candle or the mirror that reflects it.
You cannot have it both ways.
I would sort out all the arguments and see which belonged to fear and which to creativeness. Other things being equal  I would make the decision which had the larger number of creative reasons on its side.
Of two evils  choose the less.
Of two evils  choose the prettier.
Where bad's the best  bad must be the choice.
Both choices are painful  but only one is therapeutic.
God offers to every mind its choice between truth and repose. Take which you please-you can never have both.
Necessity relieves us from the embarrassment of choice.
When you have to make a choice and don't make it  that is in itself a choice.
A man without decision can never be said to belong to himself  he is as a wave of the sea  or a feather in the air which every breeze blows about.
Nothing is so exhausting as indecision  and nothing is so futile.
Not to decide is to decide.
Decision is a sharp knife that cuts clean and straight  indecision  a dull one that hacks and tears and leaves ragged edges behind it.
There is no more miserable human being than one in whom nothing is habitual but indecision.
In not making the decision  you've made one. Not doing something is the same as doing it.
There is a time when we must firmly choose the course we will follow  or the relentless drift of events will make the decision for us.
You can only predict things after they've happened.
It is the mark of a good action that it appears inevitable  in retrospect.
No one knows what he can to do until he tries.
Of all paths a man could strike into  there is  at any given moment  a best path which  here and now  it were of all things wisest for him to do. To find this path  and walk in it  is the one thing needful for him.
Decisions  particularly important ones  have always made me sleepy  perhaps because I know that I will have to make them by instinct  and thinking things out is only what other people tell me I should do.
After a battle is over people talk a lot about how decisions were methodically reached  but actually there's always a hell of a lot of groping around.
No question is ever settled until it is settled right.
No man who has not sat in the assemblies of men can know the light  odd and uncertain ways in which decisions are often arrived at.
No trumpets sound when the important decisions of our life are made. Destiny is made known silently.
A man must be able to cut a knot  for everything cannot be untied.
Once to every man and nation comes the moment to decide ... And the choice goes by forever t'wixt that darkness and that light.
Necessity is not an established fact  but an interpretation.
We are not permitted to choose the frame of our destiny. But what we put into it is ours.
There is a point at which everything becomes simple and there is no longer any question of choice  because all you have staked will be lost if you look back. Life's point of no return.
Optimism is an intellectual choice.
The lame man who keeps the right road outstrips the runner who takes a wrong one ... the more active and swift the latter is  the further he will go astray.
Nothing is more difficult  and therefore more precious  than to be able to decide.
There is one quality more important than know-how.... This is know-how by which we determine not only how to accomplish our purposes  but what our purposes are to be.
Destiny is not a matter of chance  it is a matter of choice  it is not a thing to be waited for  it is a thing to be achieved.
What must be  shall be  and that which is a necessity to him that struggles is little more than choice to him that is willing.
A wiser rule would be to make up your mind soberly what you want  peace or war  and then to get ready for what you want  for what we prepare for is what we shall get.
We have resolved to endure the unendurable and suffer what is insufferable.
Once a decision was made  I did not worry about it afterward.
No country can act wisely simultaneously in every part of the globe at every moment of time.
The last  if not the greatest  of the human freedoms: to choose their own attitude in any given circumstance.
He who has a choice has trouble.
We have left undone those things which we ought to have done  and we have done those things which we ought not to have done.
Little deeds of kindness  little words of love  Make our earth an Eden like the heaven above.
Whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well.
Give me the ready hand rather than the ready tongue.
Noble deeds that are concealed are most esteemed.
Heaven ne'er helps the man who will not help himself.
Do not be afraid of defeat. You are never so near to victory as when defeated in a good cause.
To lose Is to learn.
We have fought this fight as long  and as well as we know how. We have been defeated. For us  as a Christian people  there is now but one course to pursue. We must accept the situation.
I let the American people down  and I have to carry that burden for the rest of my life. My political life is over. I will never again have an opportunity to serve in any official position. Maybe I can give a little advice from time to time.
What is defeat? Nothing but education  nothing but the first step toward something better.
Who  apart From ourselves  can see any difference between Our victories and our defeats?
They were never defeated  they were only killed.
The mountain remains unmoved at seeming defeat by the mist.
It is defeat that turns bone to flint  it is defeat that turns gristle to muscle  it is defeat that makes men invincible.
What is defeat? Nothing but education  nothing but the first step to something better.
Defeat should never be a source of discouragement but rather a fresh stimulus.
Demagogues and agitators are very unpleasant  but they are incidents to a free and constitutional country  and you must put up with these inconveniences or do without many important advantages.
In every age the vilest specimens of human nature are to be found among demagogues.
Every one that was in distress  and every one that was in debt  and every one that was discontented  gathered themselves unto him  and he became a captain over them.
A wise fellow who is also worthless always charms the rabble.
Democracy is based upon the conviction that there are extraordinary possibilities in ordinary people.
In a democracy  the opposition is not only tolerated as constitutional  but must be maintained because it is indispensable.
It has been said that Democracy is the worst form of government except all those other forms that have been tried from time to time.
Democracy is based on the conviction that man has the moral and intellectual capacity  as well as the inalienable right  to govern himself with reason and justice.
If you want to understand democracy  spend less time in the library with Plato  and more time in the buses with people.
Democracy is a small hard core of common agreement  surrounded by a rich variety of individual differences.
People often say that  in a democracy  decisions are made by a majority of the people. Of course  that is not true. Decisions are made by a majority of those who make themselves heard and who vote - a very different thing.
Democracy means government by the uneducated  while aristocracy means government by the badly educated.
My definition of a free society is a society where it is safe to be unpopular.
It is the greatest good to the greatest number which is the measure of right and wrong.
The greatest blessing of our democracy is freedom. But in the last analysis  our only freedom is the freedom to discipline ourselves.
Democracy is the recurrent suspicion that more than half of the people are right more than half of the time.
The worst form of inequality is to try to make unequal things equal.
What men value in the world is not rights  but privileges.
As I would not be a slave  so I would not be a master. This expresses my idea of democracy.
Democracy is a festival of mediocrity.
The job of a citizen is to keep his mouth open.
It would be folly to argue that the people cannot make political mistakes. They can and do make grave mistakes. They know it  they pay the penalty  but compared with the mistakes which have been made by every kind of autocracy they are unimportant.
Democracy is based upon the conviction that there are extraordinary possibilities in ordinary people.
The world must be made safe for democracy.
Democracy is the government of the people  by the people  for the people.
Democracy means not "I am as good as you are " but "You are as good as I am."
All the ills of democracy can be cured by more democracy.
I believe in Democracy because it releases the energies of every human being.
While democracy must have its organization and controls  its vital breath is individual liberty.
People may live as much retired from the world as they please  but sooner or later  before they are aware  they will find themselves debtor or creditor to somebody.
He who imagines he can do without the world deceives himself much  but he who fancies the world cannot do without him is still more mistaken.
It is easier to suppress the first desire than to satisfy all that follow it.
There are two tragedies in life. One is not to get your heart's desire. The other is to get it.
Our desires always increase with our possessions. The knowledge that something remains yet unenjoyed impairs our enjoyment of the good before us.
He who desires naught will always be free.
Ah love! could you and I with Him conspire To grasp this sorry scheme of things entire  Would not we shatter it to bits - and then Re-mold it nearer to the heart's desire!
Ail hope abandon  ye who enter here.
Despair is the conclusion of fools.
Despair doubles our strength.
It is the old practice of despots to use a part of the people to keep the rest in order.
Despotism can no more exist in a nation until the liberty of the press be destroyed than the night can happen before the sun is set.
I will believe in the right of one man to govern a nation despotically when I find a man born unto the world with boots and spurs  and a nation with saddles on their backs.
We are but as the instrument of Heaven. Our work is not design  but destiny.
Every man meets his Waterloo at last.
There is a divinity that shapes our ends  Rough-hew them how we will.
Here is the devil-and-all to pay.
Resist the Devil  and he will flee from you.
The devil was sick  the devil a monk would be  The devil was well  the devil a monk was he.
How art thou fallen from heaven  O Lucifer  son of the morning!
Get thee behind me  Satan.
He will give the devil his due.
The prince of darkness is a gentleman.
The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose.
Everyone gets their rough day. No one gets a free ride. Today so far  I had a good day. I got a dial tone.
Thy fate is the common fate of all  Into each life some rain must fall  Some days must be dark and dreary.
Some days you tame the tiger. And some days the tiger has you for lunch.
Some days the dragon wins.
The one law that does not change is that everything changes  and the hardship I was bearing today was only a breath away from the pleasures I would have tomorrow  and those pleasures would be all the richer because of the memories of this I was enduring.
Experience cold or heat  pleasure or pain. These experiences are fleeting  they come and go. Bear them patiently.
To everything there is a season  A time for every purpose under heaven.... A time to weep  and a time to laugh  A time to mourn  and a time to dance.
Let nothing disturb thee  Let nothing affright thee  All things are passing  God changeth never.
This  too  shall pass.
The present will not long endure.
We do not live an equal life  but one of contrasts and patchwork  now a little joy  then a sorrow  now a sin  then a generous or brave action.
I feel successful when the writing goes well. This lasts five minutes. Once  when I was number one on the bestseller list  I also felt successful. That lasted three minutes.
Sadness and gladness succeed each other.
Sadness flies away on the wings of time.
I don't think that ... one gets a flash of happiness once  and never again  it is there within you  and it will come as certainly as death....
Life comes in clusters  clusters of solitude  then clusters when there is hardly time to breathe.
If winter comes  can spring be far behind?
Human misery must somewhere have a stop  there is no wind that always blows a storm.
No winter lasts forever  no spring skips its turn.
There are trees that seem to die at the end of autumn. There are also the evergreens.
Our Lord has written the promise of resurrection  not in books alone  but in every leaf in springtime.
For  lo  the winter is past  the rain is over and gone  the flowers appear on the earth.
If matters go badly now  they will not always be so.
Pain is never permanent.
You will suffer and you will hurt. You will have joy and you will have peace.
Pain is part of being alive  and we need to learn that. Pain does not last forever  nor is it necessarily unbearable  and we need to be taught that.
Pain is hard to bear.... But with patience  day by day  Even this shall pass away.
Everything in life that we really accept undergoes a change. So suffering must become love. That is the mystery.
I've been failing for  like  ten or eleven years. When it turns  it'll turn. Right now I'm just tryin' to squeeze through a very tight financial period  get the movie out  and put my things in order.
I've never been poor  only broke. Being poor is a frame of mind. Being broke is a temporary situation.
In the darkest hour the soul is replenished and given strength to continue and endure.
He that can't endure the bad will not live to see the good.
Our toil is sweet with thankfulness  Our burden is our boon  The curse of earth's gray morning is The blessing of its noon.
Were it possible for us to see further than our knowledge reaches  perhaps we would endure our sadnesses with greater confidence than our joys. For they are moments when something new has entered into us  something unknown.
We may draw good outof evil  we must not do evil  that good may come.
You will find a joy in overcoming obstacles.
What we call the beginning is often an end. And to make an end is to make a beginning. The end is where we start from.
When one door of happiness closes  another opens  but often we look so long at the closed door that we do not see the one which has been opened for us.
Death is a door life opens.
The world is round  and the place which may seem like the end may also be only the beginning.
Perhaps someday it will be pleasant to remember even this.
One day in retrospect the years of struggle will strike you as the most beautiful.
The crisis of today is the joke of tomorrow.
Sadness flies away on the wings of time.
Sometimes I found that in my happy moments I could not believe that I had ever been miserable.
If our education had included training to bear unpleasantness and to let the first shock pass until we could think more calmly  many an unbearable situation would become manageable  and many a nervous illness avoided. There is a proverb expressing this. It says  trouble is a tunnel through which we pass and not a brick wall against which we must break our head.
Time  in the turning-over of days  works change  for better or worse.
Experience is what really happens to you in the long run  the truth that finally overtakes you.
Time is like a river of fleeting events  and its current is strong  as soon as something comes into sight  it is swept past us  and something else takes its place  and that too will be swept away.
Time cools  time clarifies  no mood can be maintained quite unaltered through the course of hours.
Time bears away all things.
Come what come may  time and the hour runs through the roughest day.
Time brings all things to pass.
We undo ourselves by impatience. Misfortunes have their life and their limits  their sickness and their health.
The future is something which everyone reaches at the rate of sixty minutes an hour  whatever he does  whoever he is.
That's the advantage of having lived sixty-five years. You don't feel the need to be impatient any longer.
Who longest waits most surely wins.
Patience is a bitter plant  but it has sweet fruit.
No emergency excuses you from exercising tolerance.
I believe the sign of maturity is accepting deferred gratification.
He that can have patience can have what he will.
Being human  we should bear all we can.
Adopt the pace of nature  her secret is patience.
You can't have genius without patience.
The most potent and sacred command which can be laid upon any artist is the command: wait.
How poor are they that have not patience? What wound did ever heal but by degrees?
All things come round to him who will but wait.
Panic is not an effective long-term organizing strategy.
Self-denial is painful for a moment  but very agreeable in the end.
And he shall reign a goodly king And sway his hand o'er every clime With peace writ on his signet ring  Who bides his time.
It takes time to succeed because success is merely the natural reward of taking time to do anything well.
Patience and fortitude conquer all things.
Be not afraid of growing slowly  be afraid only of standing still.
Wisely and slow. They stumble that run fast.
No great thing is created suddenly  any more than a bunch of grapes or a fig. If you tell me that you desire a fig  I answer you that there must be time. Let it first blossom  then bear fruit  then ripen.
Time deals gently only with those who take it gently.
Hold on  hold fast  hold out. Patience is genius.
Genius is nothing but a greater aptitude for patience.
All human wisdom is summed up in two words: wait and hope.
Genius is eternal patience.
Serene I fold my hands and wait.
The race is not to the swift  nor the battle to the strong.
Everything comes if a man will only wait.
Everything comes to him who hustles while he waits.
The secret of patience ... to do something else in the meantime.
Have patience with all things  but chiefly have patience with yourself. Do not lose courage in considering your own imperfections  but instantly set about remedying them-every day begin the task anew.
Let us then be up and doing  With a heart for any fate  Still achieving  still pursuing  Learn to labor and to wait.
God will wait as long as it takes for us.
Waiting is not mere empty hoping. It has the inner certainty of reaching the goal.
All things come to him who waits- provided he knows what he is waiting for.
Hope and patience are two sovereign remedies for all  the surest reposals  the softest cushions to lean on in adversity.
The strongest of all warriors are these two-Time and Patience.
Who bides his time tastes the sweet Of honey in the saltiest tear  And though he fares with slowest feet Joy runs to meet him drawing near.
God grant us patience!
Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof: and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.
There is nothing so bitter that a patient mind cannot find some solace for it.
Patience is the best remedy for every trouble.
For ye have need of patience....
They are ill discoverers that think there is no land  when they see nothing but sea.
The best way out of a difficulty is through it.
Many things difficult to design prove easy to performance.
A diplomat is a man who remembers a lady's birthday but forgets her age.
When a diplomat says yes he means perhaps  when he says perhaps he means no  when he says no he is no diplomat.
I have discovered the art of deceiving diplomats. I speak the truth  and they never believe me.
Diplomacy is to do and say The nastiest thing in the nicest way.
Disappointment is the nurse of wisdom.
The best-laid schemes o' mice an' men  Gang aft a-gley  And leave us nought but grief and pain  For promised joy.
Disappointments are to the soul what a thunder-storm is to the air.
Men would be angels  Angels would be gods.
Now is the Winter of our discontent.
I was born to other things.
Discontent is the first step in the progress of a man or a nation.
Discretion in speech is more than eloquence.
A sound discretion is not so much indicated by never making a mistake as by never repeating it.
Great ability without discretion comes almost invariably to a tragic end.
Let your own discretion be your tutor  suit the action to the word  the word to the action.
The better part of valour is discretion.
Disease is the retribution of outraged Nature.
Disease is an experience of so-called mortal mind. It is fear made manifest on the body.
Desperate diseases require desperate remedies.
Some remedies are worse than the disease.
Whatever disgrace we may have deserved  it is almost always in our power to re-establish our character.
No one can disgrace us but ourselves.
Doubt the man who swears to his devotion.
Women distrust men too much in general  and too little in particular.
What loneliness is more lonely than distrust?
Doctrine is nothing but the skin of truth set up and stuffed.
How absurd to try to make two men think alike on matters of religion  when I cannot make two timepieces agree!
In religion as in politics it so happens that we have less charity for those who believe half our creed  than for diose who deny the whole of it.
You can and you can't  You will and you won't  You'll be damn'd if you do  You'll be damn'd if you don't.
"Orthodoxy  my Lord " said Bishop Warburton  in a whisper   -  "orthodoxy is my doxy   -  heterodoxy is another man's doxy."
Do not disturb the sleeping dog.
Every dog is entitled to one bite.
Who loves me will love my dog also.
You're only a dog  old fellow  a dog  and you've had your day  But never a friend of all my friends has been truer than you alway.
I agree with Agassiz that dogs possess something very like a conscience.
Oh  the saddest of sights in a world of sin Is a little lost pup with his tail tucked in!
Fox-terriers are born with about four times as much original sin in them as other dogs.
The more one comes to know men  the more one comes to admire the dog.
The dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their masters' table.
The cowardly dog barks more violently than it bites.
Every dog must have his day.
Gentlemen of die Jury: The one  absolute  unselfish friend that man can have in this selfish world  the one that never deserts him  the one that never proves ungrateful or treacherous  is his dog.
Galileo called doubt the father of invention  it is certainly the pioneer.
Of that there is no manner of doubt -  No probable  possible shadow of doubt -  No possible doubt whatever.
We know accurately only when we know little  with knowledge doubt increases.
When in doubt  win the trick.
I respect faith  but doubt is what gets you an education.
And he that doubteth is damned if he eat.
To be  or not to be  that is the question: Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune  Or to take arms against a sea of troubles  And by opposing end them?
Our doubts are traitors And make us lose the good we oft might win By fearing to attempt.
There lives more faith in honest doubt  Believe me  than in half the creeds
I'm from Missouri  you must show me.
Unrest and uncertainty are our lot.
Life is uncertain. Eat dessert first.
If we insist on being as sure as is conceivable ... we must be content to creep along the ground  and can never soar.
Nothing  perhaps  is strange  once you have accepted life itself  the great strange business which includes all lesser strangeness.
The shortest period of time lies between the minute you put some money away for a rainy day and the unexpected arrival of rain.
Our lives are never certain  even for an hour.
Throughout this life  you can never be certain of living long enough to take another breath.
I wanted a perfect ending. Now I've learned  the hard way  that some poems don't rhyme  and some stories don't have a clear beginning  middle  and end. Life is about not knowing  having to change  taking the moment and making the best of it without knowing what's going to happen next.
Where will I be five years from now? I delight in not knowing.
The longing for certainty ... is in every human mind. But certainty is generally illusion.
No great deed is done by falterers who ask for certainty.
Every year  if not every day  we have to wager our salvation upon some prophecy based upon imperfect knowledge.
We are not certain  we are never certain.
We live in an epoch in which the solid ground of our preconceived ideas shakes daily under our certain feet.
All business proceeds on beliefs  or judgment of probabilities  and not on certainties.
The man who insists upon seeing with perfect clearness before he decides  never decides.
There is nothing certain in a man's life but that he must lose it.
Ah  what a dusty answer gets the soul when hot for certainties in this  our life!
When I was young I was sure of everything  in a few years  having been mistaken a thousand times  I was not half so sure of most things as I was before  at present  I am hardly sure of anything but what God has revealed.
We can be absolutely certain only about things we do not understand.
You are all you will ever have for certain.
Certitude is not the test of certainty. We have been cock-sure of many things that were not so.
A reasonable probability is the only certainty.
Doubt is not a pleasant state  but certainty is a ridiculous one.
Being unready and ill-equipped is what you have to expect in life. It is the universal predicament. It is your lot as a human being to lack what it takes. Circumstances are seldom right. You never have the capacities  the strength  the wisdom  the virtue you ought to have. You must always do with less than you need in a situation vastly different from what you would have chosen.
To be absolutely certain about something  one must know everything  or nothing  about it.
Free man is by necessity insecure  thinking man by necessity uncertain.
We sail within a vast sphere  ever drifting in uncertainty  driven from end to end.
Something must be left to chance  nothing is sure in a sea fight.
There is nothing certain about war except that one side won't win.
There is only one thing about which I am certain  and this is that there is very little about which one can be certain.
The only certainty is that nothing is certain.
I'm often wrong  but never in doubt.
There is one thing certain  namely  that we can have nothing certain  therefore it is not certain that we can have nothing certain.
Every area of trouble gives out a ray of hope  and the one unchangeable certainty is that nothing is certain or unchangeable.
Any coward can fight a battle when he's sure of winning.
The demand is for certainty is a sign of weakness.
The unknown is what it is. And to be frightened of it is what sends everybody scurrying around chasing dreams  illusions  wars  peace  love  hate  all that.... Accept that it's unknown  and it's plain sailing.
Only a weak mind seeks ultimate answers.
When nothing is sure  everything is possible.
He who forecasts all perils will never sail the sea.
There is a time for departure  even when there's no certain place to go.
One doesn't discover new lands without consenting to lose sight of shore for a very long time.
To teach how to live with uncertainty  yet without being paralyzed by hesitation  is perhaps the chief thing that philosophy can do.
Faith ... acts promptly and boldly on the occasion  on slender evidence.
If we wait until we've satisfied all the uncertainties  it may be too late.
The successful man is he who  when he sees that no further certainty is attainable  promptly decides on the most probable side  as if he were completely sure it was right.
Not seeing is half-believing.
The best and most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even touched-they must be felt with the heart.
There is no advancement to him who stands trembling because he cannot see the end from the beginning.
I am a woman who understands the necessity of an impulse whose goal or origin still lie beyond me.
To end with certainty  we must begin with doubting.
Gardening is an exercise in optimism.
In the face of uncertainty  there is nothing wrong with hope.
No object is mysterious. The mystery is your eye.
Faith hasn't got no eyes  but she's long-legged.
Maturity of mind is the capacity to endure uncertainty.
Don't be afraid of the space between your dreams and reality. If you can dream it  you can make it so.
If a man will begin with certainties  he shall end in doubts  but if he will content to begin with doubts  he shall end in certainties.
I said here's the river I want to flow on  here's the direction I want to go  and put my boat in. I was ready for the river to take unexpected turns and present obstacles.
The future is no more uncertain than the present.
Nobody can really guarantee the future. The best we can do is size up the chances  calculate the risks involved  estimate our ability to deal with them and make our plans with confidence.
Every time I think that I'm getting old  and gradually going to the grave  something else happens.
Many live in dread of what is coming. Why should we? The unknown puts adventure into life. ... The unexpected around the corner gives a sense of anticipation and surprise. Thank God for the unknown future.
I think I look good out there. I'm strong  powerful  and artistic. But I have my doubts as much as anyone.
If I ever felt inclined to be timid as I was going into a room full of people  I would say to myself  "You're the cleverest member of one of the cleverest families in the cleverest class of the cleverest nation. ... Why should you be frightened?"
Action will remove the doubts that theory cannot solve.
To Death I yield  but not to Doubt  who slays before!
Soon after a heart-wrung decision  something inevitably occurs to cast doubt on your choice. Holding steady against that doubt usually proves your decision.
Doubt breeds doubt.
It's the moment you think you can't that you realize you can.
From a shy  timid girl I had become a woman of resolute character  who could no longer be frightened by the struggle with troubles.
Doubt is a pain too lonely to know that faith is his twin brother.
Doubts and mistrust are the mere panic of timid imagination  which the steadfast heart will conquer  and the large mind transcend.
Doubt indulged soon becomes doubt realized.
When one devotes oneself to meditation  mental burdens  unnecessary worries  and wandering thoughts drop off one by one  life seems to run smoothly and pleasantly. A student may now depend on intuition to make decisions. As one acts on intuition  second thought  with its dualism  doubt and hesitation  does not arise.
In doubt  fear is the worst of prophets.
The only limit to our realization of tomorrow will be our doubts of today. Let us move forward with strong and active faith.
In case of doubt  decide in favor of what is correct.
Faith and doubt both are needed  not as antagonists  but working side by side to take us around the unknown curve.
Our doubts are traitors  and make us lose the good we often might win  by fearing to attempt.
A man's doubts and fears are his worst enemies.
When in doubt  do it.
Yes  I have doubted. I have wandered off the path  but I always return. It is intuitive  an intrinsic  built-in sense of direction. I seem always to find my way home.
A person who doubts himself is like a man who would enlist in the ranks of his enemies and bear arms against himself.
Doubt whom you will  but never yourself.
Self distrust is the cause of most of our failures. In the assurance of strength  there is strength  and they are the weakest  however strong  who have no faith in themselves or their own powers.
Doubt yourself and you doubt everything you see. Judge yourself and you see judges everywhere. But if you listen to the sound of your own voice  you can rise above doubt and judgment. And you can see forever.
To be ambitious for wealth  and yet always expecting to be poor  to be always doubting your ability to get what you long for  is like trying to reach east by traveling west. There is no philosophy which will help a man to succeed when he is always doubting his ability to do so  and thus attracting failure. No matter how hard you work for success  if your thought is saturated with the fear of failure  it will kill your efforts  neutralize your endeavors and make success impossible.
Uncertainty and expectation are the joys of life. Security is an insipid thing.
I used to tremble from nerves so badly that the only way I could hold my head steady was to lower my chin practically to my chest and look up at Bogie. That was the beginning of "The Look."
When nothing is sure  everything is possible.
Uncertainty and mystery are energies of life. Don't let them scare you unduly  for they keep boredom at bay and spark creativity.
The quest for certainty blocks the search for meaning. Uncertainty is the very condition to impel man to unfold his powers.
All uncertainly is fruitful... so long as it is accompanied by the wish to understand.
I'm delighted that the future is unsure. That's the way it should be.
When we are not sure  we are alive.
Freedom is nothing else but a chance to be better  whereas enslavement is a certainty of the worst.
The only thing that makes life possible is permanent  intolerable uncertainty  not knowing what comes next.
In the face of uncertainty  there is nothing wrong with hope.
If there were dreams to sell  Merry and sad to tell  And the crier rung his bell  What would you buy?
I dreamt that I dwelt in marble halls  With vassals and serfs at my side.
Abou Ben Adhem (may his tribe increase!) Awoke one night from a deep dream of peace.
For dhrames always go by conthraries  my dear.
We are such stuff As dreams are made on  and our little life Is rounded with a sleep.
Till the day when I'll be going down that Long  long trail with you.
When you're all dressed up and no place to go.
If a woman were about to proceed to her execution  she would demand a little time to perfect her toilet.
Eat to please thyself  but dress to please others.
A torch-light procession marching down your throat.
First you take a drink  then the drink takes a drink  then the drink takes you.
For when the wine is in  the wit is out.
He neither drank  smoked  nor rode a bicycle. Living frugally  saving his money  he died early  surrounded by greedy relatives. It was a great lesson to me.
He who drinks a little too much drinks much too much.
I am only a beer teetotaller  not a champagne teetotaller.
The worst thing about some men is that when they are not drunk they are sober.
I have never been drunk  but I've often been overserved.
In vino Veritas. (In wine there is truth.)
The morning cup of coffee has an exhilaration about it which the cheering influence of the afternoon or evening cup of tea cannot be expected to reproduce.
They talk of my drinking but never my thirst.
What  when drunk  one sees in other women  one sees in Garbo sober.
You are not drunk if you can lie on the floor without holding on.
I like liquor - its taste and its effects - and that is just the reason why I never drink it.
The Persians are very fond of wine ... It is also their general practice to deliberate upon affairs of weight when they are drunk  and then in the morning  when they are sober  the decision to which they came the night before is put before them by the master of the house in which it was made  and if it is then approved they act on it  if not  they set it aside. Sometimes  however  they are sober at their first deliberations  but in this case they always reconsider the matter under the influence of wine.
Drunkenness is temporary suicide: the happiness that it brings is merely negative  a momentary cessation of unhappiness.
Bacchus has drowned more men than Neptune.
Temperance is the control of all the functions of our bodies. The man who refuses liquor  goes in for apple pie and develops a paunch  is no ethical leader for me.
Nothing ever tasted any better than a cold beer on a beautiful afternoon with nothing to look forward to but more of the same.
Moderation is commonly firm  and firmness is commonly successful.
Abstinence is as easy for me as temperance would be difficult.
I drink to make other people interesting.
One of the disadvantages of wine is that is makes a man mistake words for thoughts.
The innkeeper loves the drunkard  but not for a son-in-law.
Whisky drowns some troubles and floats a lot more.
Malt does more than Milton can To justify God's ways to man.
A man hath no better thing under the sun  than to eat  and to drink  and to be merry.
Drink not the third glass - which thou can'st not tame when once it is within thee.
An Irish queer: a fellow who prefers women to drink.
Jellinek's disease (alcoholism) is responsible for: 50 percent of all auto fatalities 80 percent of all home violence 30 percent of all suicides 60 percent of all child abuse 65 percent of all drownings It is estimated that when a woman contracts the disease  her husband leaves her in nine out often cases  when a man contracts it  his wife leaves in one out of ten cases.
Eat bread at pleasure  drink wine by measure.
We frequently hear of people dying from too much drinking. That this happens is a matter of record. But the blame almost always is placed on whisky. Why this should be I never could understand. You can die from drinking too much of anything - coffee  water  milk  soft drinks and all such stuff as that. And so long as the presence of death lurks with anyone who goes through the simple act of swallowing  I will make mine whisky.
It's a naive domestic burgundy without any breeding  but I think you'll be amused by its presumption.
Drunkenness is nothing but voluntary madness.
There are more old drunkards than old physicians.
He is . . . like many other geniuses  a greater friend to the bottle  than the bottle is to him.
Boys should abstain from all use of wine until their eighteenth year  for it is wrong to add fire to fire.
I always keep a supply of stimulant handy in case I see a snake - which I also keep handy.
We had gone out there to pass the beautiful day of high summer like true Irishmen - locked in the dark Snug of a public house.
The whole world is about three drinks behind.
Drunkenness is temporary suicide: the happiness that it brings is merely negative  a momentary cessation of unhappiness.
There was an old hen And she had a wooden leg  And every damned morning She laid another egg  She was the best damned chicken On the whole damned farm -  And another little drink Wouldn't do us any harm.
It's a long time between drinks.
He is a drunkard who takes more than three glasses  though he be not drunk.
Drink today  and drown all sorrow  You shall perhaps not do it tomorrow.
Woe unto them that rise up early in the morning  that they may follow strong drink  that continue until night  till wine inflame them.
The habit of using ardent spirits by men in office has occasioned more injury to the public  and more trouble to me  than all other causes. Were I to commence my administration again  the first question I would ask respecting a candidate for office would be  Does he use ardent spirits?
I would appeal to Philip  she said  but to Philip sober.
Drink! for you know not whence you came  nor why: Drink! for you know not why you go  nor where.
All excess is ill  but drunkeness is of the worst sort. It spoils health  dismounts the mind  and unmans men. It reveals secrets  is quarrelsome  lascivious  impudent  dangerous and bad.
There St. John mingles with my friendly bowl The feat of reason and the flow of soul.
Water is the only drink for a wise man.
To do my duty in that state of life unto which it shall please God to call me.
It is thy duty oftentimes to do what thou wouldst not  thy duty  too  to leave undone that thou wouldst do.
So nigh is grandeur to our dust  So near is God to man. When Duty whispers low  Thou must  The youth replies  I can.
No personal consideration should stand in the way of performing a public duty.
Let us have faith that right makes might  and in that faith let us  to the end  dare to do our duty as we understand it.
England expects every man to do his duty.
Theirs not to make reply  Theirs not to reason why  Theirs but to do and die.
Not once or twice in our rough island story  The path of duty was the way to glory.
Early to bed and early to rise  Makes a man healthy  wealthy and wise.
Tomb  thou shalt not hold Him longer  Death is strong  but Life is stronger  Stronger than the dark  the light  Stronger than the wrong  the right  Faith and Hope triumphant say Christ will rise on Easter Day.
Come  ye saints  look here and wonder  See the place where Jesus lay  He has borne our sins away  Joyful tiding  Yes  the Lord has risen today.
"Christ the Lord is risen today " Sons of men and angels say. Raise your joys and triumphs high  Sing  ye heavens  and earth reply.
In the bonds of Death He lay Who for our offense was slain  But the Lord is risen today  Christ hath brought us life again  Wherefore let us all rejoice  Singing loud  with cheerful voice  Hallelujah!
I envy people who drink - at least they know what to blame everything on.
I knew I was drunk. I felt sophisticated and couldn't pronounce it.
They say hot dogs can kill you. How do you know it's not the bun?
Enjoy life. Think of all the women who passed up dessert on the Titanic.
According to my doctor it's okay to drink like a fish - as long as I drink what the fish drinks.
I find the more I drink the more interesting others become.
I'd hate to be a teetotaler. Imagine getting up in the morning and knowing that's as good as you're going to feel all day.
I always keep a supply of stimulant handy in case I see a snake - which I also keep handy.
Everybody should believe in something  I believe I'll have another drink.
Let's get out of these wet clothes and into a dry martini.
I know lots more old drunks than old doctors.
An alcoholic has been lightly defined as a man who drinks more than his own doctor.
You're not drunk if you can lie on the floor without holding on.
Some people make spectacles of themselves with a couple of glasses.
Most people hate the taste of beer to begin with. It is  however  a prejudice that many people have been able to overcome.
Let us eat and drink: for tomorrow we diet.
He who laughs  lasts.
I exercise self-control and never touch any beverage stronger than gin before breakfast.
For him  any wine dated before four o'clock in the afternoon is vintage.
I'm not much of a drinker. It only takes me one drink to get drunk . . . my fourth.
It was a woman who drove me to drink -  and you know  I never even thanked her.
Once during Prohibition  I was forced to live for days on nothing but food and water.
There is nothing wrong with sobriety in moderation.
I started smoking to lose weight. After I dropped that lung I felt pretty good.
You can tell German wine from vinegar ... by the label.
Let's toast a real wine expert - someone who knows a good rose goes best with bologna sandwiches.
I have made it a rule never to smoke more than one cigar at a time.
I've noticed the customers in health food stores. They are pale  skinny people who usually look half dead. In a steak house  you see robust  ruddy people. They're dying  of course  but they look terrific.
I'm a one-drink woman  two at the most  three I'm under the table  four I'm under the host.
Is life worth living? That depends on the liver.
I've never been drunk  but often I've been overserved.
Eat  drink  and be merry  for tomorrow ye diet.
Tell me what you eat  and I will tell you what you are.
Better halfe a loafe than no bread.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
Thou shouldst eat to live  not live to eat.
The nearer the bone  the sweeter the meat.
I want every peasant to have a chicken in his pot on Sundays.
When I demanded of my friend what viands he preferred  He quoth: "A large cold bottle  and a small hot bird!"
Let us eat and drink  for tomorrow we shall die.
For a man seldom thinks with more earnestness of anything than he does of his dinner.
Man shall not live by bread alone
The way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
Better is a dinner of herbs where love is  than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.
He hath eaten me out of house and home.
They say fingers were made before forks  and hands before knives.
Bread is the staff of life.
Buy not what you want  but what you have need of  what you do not want is dear at a farthing.
He who will not economize will have to agonize.
After order and liberty  economy is one of the highest essentials of a free government.... Economy is always a guarantee of peace.
Beware of little expenses  a small leak will sink a great ship.
No man is rich whose expenditure exceeds his means  and no one is poor whose incomings exceed his outgoings.
Have more than thou showest  Speak less than thou knowest.
A gentleman need not know Latin  but he should at least have forgotten it.
A one-book man is either a slow learner or an ill-equipped teacher.
Arrogance  pedantry  and dogmatism are the occupational diseases of those who spend their lives directing the intellects of the young.
Creatures whose main spring is curiosity will enjoy the accumulating of fact  far more than the pausing at times to reflect on those facts.
Good teaching is l/4th preparation and 3/4ths theatre.
He who would learn to fly one day must first learn to stand and walk and run and climb and dance  one cannot fly into flying.
Learning makes a man fit company for himself.
I forget what I was taught. I only remember what I have learnt.
I pay the School Master  but 'tis the school boys that educate my son.
If you educate a man you educate a person  but if you educate a woman  you educate a family.
If you hit a pony over the nose at the outset of your acquaintance  he may not love you but he will take a deep interest in your movements ever afterwards.
On many American campuses the only qualification for admission was the ability actually to find the campus and then discover a parking space.
One could get a first-class education from a shelf of books five feet long.
One father is more than 100 schoolmasters.
One looks back with appreciation to the brilliant teachers  but with gratitude to those who touched our human feelings. The curriculum is so much necessary raw material  but warmth is a vital element for the growing plant and for the soul of the child.
Pedantry crams our heads with learned lumber and takes out brains to make room for it.
Tell me and I'll forget. Show me  and I may not remember. Involve me  and I'll understand.
The average PhD thesis is nothing but a transference of bones from one graveyard to another.
The true teacher defends his pupils against his own personal influence.
Today's public education system is a failed monopoly: bureaucratic  rigid and in unsteady control of dissatisfied captive markets.
Education should be gentle and stern  not cold and lax.
Universities are the cathedrals of the modern age. They shouldn't have to justify their existence by utilitarian criteria.
We should not value education as a means to prosperity  but prosperity as a means to education. Only then will our priorities be right. For education  unlike prosperity is an end in itself. .. power and influence come through the acquisition of useless knowledge. . . irrelevant subjects bring understanding of the human condition  by forcing the student to stand back from it.
When there are two PhD's in a developing country  one is Head of State and the other is in exile.
You don't understand anything until you learn it more than one way.
The schools ain't what they used to be and never was.
The things taught in schools are not an education but the means of an education.
The university is the last remaining platform for national dissent.
The freshmen bring a little knowledge in and the seniors take none out  so it accumulates through the years.
Surely the shortest commencement address in history - and for me one of the most memorable - was that of Dr. Harold E. Hyde  President of New Hampshire's Plymouth State College. He reduced his message to the graduating class to these three ideals: 'Know yourself- Socrates. Control yourself- Cicero  Give yourself - Christ.'
There is that indescribable freshness and unconsciousness about an illiterate person that humbles and mocks the power of the noblest expressive genius.
Intelligence appears to be the thing that enables a man to get along without education. Education appears to be the thing that enables a man to get along without the use of his intelligence.
By learning you will teach  by teaching you will learn.
Most men of education are more superstitious than they admit - nay  than they think.
A university is what a college becomes when the faculty loses interest in students.
Education is indoctrination  if you're white - subjugation if you're black.
The investigation of the meaning of words is the beginning of education.
Learning to learn is to know how to navigate in a forest of facts  ideas and theories  a proliferation of constantly changing items of knowledge. Learning to learn is to know what to ignore but at the same time not rejecting innovation and research.
A good education should leave much to be desired.
'Whom are you?' he asked  for he had been to night school.
Education with inert ideas is not only useless  it is above all things harmful.
Schoolmasters and parents exist to be grown out of.
A child educated only at school is an uneducated child.
No one can become really educated without having pursued some study in which he took no interest. For it is part of education to interest ourselves in subjects for which we have no aptitude.
It is in fact a part of the function of education to help us to escape  not from our own time - for we are bound by that - but from the intellectual and emotional limitations of our time.
Nothing in education is so astonishing as the amount of ignorance it accumulates in the form of inert facts.
You can lead a man up to the university  but you can't make him think.
If you think education is expensive - try ignorance.
It is a greater work to educate a child  in the true and larger sense of the word  than to rule a state.
There is less flogging in our great schools than formerly  but then less is learned there  so that what the boys get at one end they lose at the other.
Education is not the filling of a pail  but the lighting of a fire.
Perhaps the most valuable result of all education is the ability to make yourself do the thing you have to do  when it ought to be done  whether you like it or not  it is the first lesson that ought to be learned  and however early a man's training begins  it is probably the last lesson that he learns thoroughly.
Some men are graduated from college cum laude  some are graduated summa cum laude  and some are graduated mirabile dictu.
Education is the ability to listen to almost anything without losing your temper or your self-confidence.
We must reject that most dismal and fatuous notion that education is a preparation for life.
Soon learnt  soon forgotten.
It is of interest to note that while some dolphins are reported to have learned English - up to fifty words used in correct context - no human being has been reported to have learned dolphinese.
And if the student finds that this is not to his taste  well  that is regrettable. Most regrettable. His taste should not be consulted  it is being formed.
Education  n: that which discloses to the wise and disguises from the foolish their lack of understanding.
The Romans would never have had time to conquer the world if they had been obliged to learn Latin first of all.
The antithesis between a technical and a liberal education is fallacious. There can be no adequate technical education which is not liberal  and no liberal education which is not technical.
John Milton called his school  Christ College  'a stony-hearted stepmother'. The ultimate goal of the educational system is to shift to the individual the burden of pursuing his education.
To make your children capable of honesty is the beginning of education.
Creative minds have always been known to survive any kind of bad training.
Fathers send their sons to college either because they went to college  or because they didn't.
Education today  more than ever before  must see clearly the dual objectives: education for living and educating for making a living.
The test and the use of man's education is that he finds pleasure in the exercise of his mind.
The Jews have always been students  and their greatest study is themselves.
Whenever I'm asked what college I attended  I'm tempted to reply  Thornton Wilder'.
Let the schools teach the nobility of labour and the beauty of human service: but the superstitions of ages past? Never!
Education is what survives when what has been learnt has been forgotten.
I find the three major administrative problems on a campus are sex for the students  athletics for the alumni and parking for the faculty.
All learning has an emotional base.
Whatever is good to know is difficult to learn.
Thus education forms the common mind  Just as the twig is bent  the tree's inclined.
There is a time in every man's education when he arrives at the conviction that envy is ignorance  that imitation is suicide  that he must take himself for better  for worse as his portion.
He couldn't get into Harvard even if he had the dean's wife at gunpoint.
College is the best time of your life. When else are your parents going to spend several thousand dollars a year just for you to go to a strange town and get drunk every night?
It's strange how few of the world's great problems are solved by people who remember their algebra.
Those who go to college and never get out are called professors.
You could do anything in your room at college. You could smoke pot  live in a coed dorm  have a girl. But you couldn't have a . . . hot plate!
My husband managed to cram four years of college into five.
One little six-year-old took home a note saying he need not come to school since he was "too stupid to learn." That boy was Thomas Edison.
Last words when sending our boy to college: "If there's anything you want  call us and we'll show you how to live without it."
She's an honor student. She's always saying  "Yes  Your Honor. No  Your Honor."
Bumper sticker: Driver carries no cash -  he has a son in college.
Everyone is in awe of the lion tamer in a cage with half a dozen lions -  everyone but a school bus driver.
It was going all wrong at my college interview until I nonchalantly asked  "Do you need any large donations for new buildings?"
I won't say ours was a tough school  but we had our own coroner. We used to write essays like "What I'm Going to Be if I Grow Up."
The difference between genius and stupidity is that genius has its limits.
There are a hundred thousand useless words in the English language  but they come in handy in college football yells.
Passing the SAT: My personal theory is that it has to do with how much money you send them in the mail. I think the amounts they tell you to send are actually just suggested minimum donations - if you get my drift.
Bumper sticker: My kid beat the heck out of the student of the month.
A kindergarten teacher is a woman who knows how to make little things count.
When asked to spell Mississippi the boy asked  "The river or the state?"
Letter home from  college boy: "There are 370 boys here - I wish there were 369."
I used to keep my college roommate from reading my personal mail by hiding it in her textbooks.
We didn't feel so good when we took our son to college and saw a sign on the liquor store - Back to School Sale.
I went to a high school that was so dangerous  the school newspaper had an obituary column.
"Do you think your boy will forget all he learned in college?" "I hope so. He can't make a living drinking."
Do you know the difference between a kayak and a college student? A kayak tips.
Some drink from the fountain of knowledge - others just gargle.
Boy handing over his report card: Of course I seem stupid to my teachers . . . they're all college graduates.
Graduation Speech: You'll have to excuse me if I cry. I've been a little teary-eyed all week  the sadness  the joy  . . . the fact that I'm off my parents' payroll.
Schoolhouses are the republican line of fortifications.
Education commences at the mother's knee  and every word spoken within the hearsay of little children tends towards the formation of character.
What greater or better gift can we offer the republic than to teach and instruct our youth?
Training is everything. The peach was once a bitter almond  cauliflower is nothing but cabbage with a college education.
The things taught in schools and colleges are not an education  but the means of education.
'Tis education forms the common mind  Just as the twig is bent the tree's inclined.
There is nothing so stupid as an educated man  if you get off the thing that he was educated in.
Education is the process of driving a set of prejudices down your throat.
If a man empties his purse into his head  no one can take it from him.
Education is an admirable thing  but it is well to remember from time to time that nothing that is worth knowing can be taught.
He did nothing in particular  And did it very well.
The best carpenters make the fewest chips.
The reason why lovers are never wary of one another is this - they are always talking of themselves.
Do you wish men to speak well of you? Then never speak well of yourself.
Nothing is more to me than myself.
Eloquence is the poetry of prose.
The manner of your speaking is full as important as the matter  as more people have ears to be tickled than understandings to judge.
Noise proves nothing. Often a hen who has merely laid an egg cackles as if she laid an asteroid.
Thoughts that breathe and words that burn.
True eloquence consists in saying all that is necessary  and nothing but what is necessary.
The truth is forced upon us  very quickly  by a foe.
There is a road from the eye to the heart that does not go through the intellect.
A wise man gets more use from his enemies than a fool from his friends.
He hasn't an enemy in the world  and none of his friends like him.
Don't think there are no crocodiles because the water is calm.
The enemies of the future are always the very nicest people.
A man cannot be too careful in the choice of his enemies.
You can discover what your enemy fears most by observing the means he uses to frighten you.
There is no man so friendless but what he can find a friend sincere enough to tell him disagreeable truths.
Enemies could become the best companions. Companionship is based on a common interest  and the greater the interest the closer the companionship. What makes enemies of people  if not the eagerness  the passion for the same thing?
Whoever has his foe at his mercy  and does not kill him  is his own enemy.
The little foxes that spoil the vines.
We have met the enemy  and he is us.
The space in a needle's eye is sufficient for two friends  but the whole world is scarcely big enough to hold two enemies. Solomon ibn Gabirol Whoso sheddeth man's blood  by man shall his blood be shed.
If we could read the secret history of our enemies  we should find in each man's life  sorrow and suffering enough to disarm all hostility.
Those who hate you don't win unless you hate them - and then you destroy yourself.
There's nothing like the sight of an old enemy down on his luck.
The enemy of my enemy is my friend.
They love him most for the enemies that he has made.
Man is his own worst enemy.
He who has a thousand friends has not a friend to spare  And he who has one enemy will meet him everywhere.
None but yourself who are your greatest foe.
If thine enemy hunger  feed him  if he thirst  give him drink.
My prayer to God is a very short one "Oh Lord  make my enemies ridiculous!" God has granted it.
A man cannot be too careful in the choice of his enemies.
England is a nation of voyeurs.
Every man has a House of Lords in his own head. Fears  prejudices  misconceptions - those are the peers and they are hereditary.
George III ought never to have occurred. One can only wonder At so grotesque a blunder.
God save our Gracious King  Long live our Noble King  God save the King. Send Him victorious Happy and Glorious Long to rule over us God save the King.
Great Britain has lost an empire and has not yet found a role.
His Majesty's dominions  on which the sun never sets.
I have been trying all my life to like Scotchmen  and am obliged to desist from the experiment in despair.
If I should die  think only this of me  that there's some corner of a foreign field that is for ever England.
It is impossible for an Englishman to open his mouth without making some other Englishman despise him.
Land of hope and glory  Mother of the Free How shall we extol thee who are borne of thee? Wider still and wider shall thy bounds be set  God who made thee mighty  make thee mightier yet.
London is a roost for every bird.
Remember that you are an Englishman and consequently have won first prize in the lottery of life.
Rule Britannia  Britannia  rule the waves  Britains never will be slaves.
Snobbery - the "pox Britannica"
The difference between the vanity of a Frenchman and an Englishman seems to be this: The one thinks everything right that is French  the other thinks everything wrong that is not English.
The Empire is a Commonwealth of nations.
The English woman is so refined She has no bosom and no behind.
The House of Lords is a model of how to care for the elderly.
The House of Lords is like a glass of champagne that has stood for 5 days.
The most dangerous thing in the world is to make a friend of an Englishman  because he'll come sleep in your closet rather than spend 10 shillings on a hotel.
The young Cambridge group  the group that stood for "freedom" and flannel trousers and flannel shirts open at the neck  and a well-bred sort of emotional anarchy  and a whispering  murmuring  sort of voice  and an ultra-sensitive sort of manner.
There will always be an England While there's a country lane Wherever there's a cottage small Beside a field of grain.
Without class differences  England would cease to be the living theatre it is.
You must not miss Whitehall. At one end you'll find a statue of one of our kings who was beheaded  at the other  the monument to the man who did it. This is just an example of our attempts to be fair to everybody.
Though I love my country  I do not love my countrymen.
England has forty-two religions and only two sauces.
England and America are two countries separated by the same language.
In England I would rather be a man  a horse  a dog or a woman  in that order. In America I think the order would be reversed.
England is the paradise of individuality  eccentricity  heresy  anomalies  hobbies and humours.
Not only England  but every Englishman is an island.
The English instinctively admire any man who has no talent and is modest about it.
In the end it may well be that Britain will be more honoured by the historians for the way she disposed of an empire than for the way in which she acquired it.
Oh  it's a snug little island! A right little  tight little island!
I regard England as my wife and America as my mistress.
The Englishman respects your opinions  but he never thinks of your feelings.
The Englishman has all the qualities of a poker except its occasional warmth.
The English never draw a line without blurring it.
Socialism has been preached for so long  the British people no longer have any sense of personal responsibility.
Britain's best bulwarks are her wooden walls.
Queen Victoria - a mixture of national landlady and actress.
I think the British have the distinction above all other nations of being able to put new wine into old bottles without bursting them.
Whatever the rest of the world thinks of the English gentleman  the English lady regards him apprehensively as something between God and a goat and equally formidable on both scores.
Deploring change is the unchangeable habit of all Englishmen. If you find any important figures who really like change  such as Bernard Shaw  Keir Hardie  Lloyd George  Selfridge or Disraeli  you will find that they are not really English at all  but Irish  Scotch  Welsh  American or Jewish. Englishmen make changes  sometimes great changes. But  secretly or openly  they always deplore them.
Where there is one Englishman there is a garden. Where there are two Englishmen there will be a club. But this does not mean any falling off in the number of gardens. There will be three. The club will have one too.
What should they know of England  who only England know?
The Lord Chief Justice of England recently said that the greater part of his judicial time was spent investigating collisions between propelled vehicles  each on its own side of the road  each sounding its horn and each stationary.
No one can be as calculatedly rude as the British  which amazes Americans  who do not understand studied insult and can only offer abuse as a substitute.
The English have an extraordinary ability for flying into a great calm.
We are articulate  but we are not particularly conversational. An Englishman won't talk for the sake of talking. He doesn't mind silence. But after the silence  he sometimes says something.
The nice sense of measure is certainly not one of Nature's gifts to her English children ... we have all of us yielded to infatuation at some moment of our lives.
I find the Englishman to be him of all men who stands firmest in his shoes.
It seems to me that you can go sauntering along for a certain period  telling the English some interesting things about themselves  and then all at once it feels as if you had stepped on the prongs of a rake.
One matter Englishmen don't think in the least funny is their happy consciousness of possessing a deep sense of humour.
The English may not like music  but they absolutely love the noise it makes.
That typically English characteristic for which there is no English name -esprit de corps.
The British are just as keen to make money as the Americans  but they prefer hypocrisy to a blatantly commercial attitude.
Nothing unites the English like war. Nothing divides them like Picasso.
The British love permanence more than they love beauty.
An Englishman thinks he is moral when he is only uncomfortable.
The British are terribly lazy about fighting. They like to get it over and done with and then set up a game of cricket.
A Scotch mist may wet an Englishman to the skin.
If I should die  think only this of me: That there's some corner of a foreign field That is forever England.
Oh  to be in England  Now that April's there.
In England there are sixty different religions  and only one sauce.
I have nothing to offer but blood  toil  tears and sweat.
Be England what she will  With all her faults  she is my country still.
Let us therefore brace ourselves to our duties  and so -bear ourselves that  if the British Empire and its Commonwealth last for a thousand years  men will still say  "This was their finest hour."
Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few.
O  it's a snug little island! A right little  tight little island!
The English nation is never so great as in adversity.
We are indeed a nation of shopkeepers.
For he might have been a Rooshian A French or Turk or Proosian  Or perhaps Italian. But in spite of all temptations To belong to other nations  He remains an Englishman.
What have I done for you  England  my England? What is there I would not do  England  my own?
Froth at the top  dregs at bottom  but the middle excellent.
The royal throne of kings  this scepter'd isle  This earth of majesty  this seat of Mars  This other Eden  demi-paradise  This fortress built by nature for herself Against infection and the hand of war  This happy breed of men  this little world  This precious stone set in the silver sea.
fights you on patriotic principles  he robs you on business principles  he enslaves you on imperial principles.
When Britain first at Heaven's command  Arose from out the azure main  This was the charter of the land  And Guardian angels sung this strain  "Rule Britannia! rule the waves  Britons never will be slaves."
An Englishman thinks he is moral when he is only uncomfortable.
A person buying ordinary products in a supermarket is in touch with his deepest emotions.
A tavern chair is the throne of human felicity.
After pleasant scratching comes unpleasant smarting.
Danger and delight grow on one stalk .
Leisure is being allowed to do nothing.
Pleasure for an hour  a bottle of wine  pleasure for a year  marriage  pleasure for a lifetime  a garden.
The test of pleasure is the memory it leaves behind. (Die Probe Eines Genusses ist Seine Erinnerung.)
The true spirit of delight  the exultation  the sense of being more than Man which is the touchstone of the highest excellence  is to be found in mathematics as surely as in poetry.
We must like what we have when we don't have what we like.
What the mass media offer is not popular art  but entertainment which is intended to be consumed like food  forgotten  and replaced by a new dish.
Speed provides the one genuinely modern pleasure.
To be able to use leisure intelligently will be the last product of an intelligent civilization.
There are two things to aim at in life: first  to get what you want  and after that to enjoy it.
That man is richest whose pleasures are the cheapest.
All the great pleasures in life are silent.
The only way to entertain some folks is to listen to them.
Enthusiasm is the greatest asset in the world. It beats money and power and influence.
Danger and delight grow on one stalk.
Every luxury must be paid for  and everything is a luxury  starting with being in the world.
Enjoyment is not a goal  it is a feeling that accompanies important ongoing activity.
Most of the luxuries  and many of the so-called comforts  of life are not only not indispensable  but positive hindrances to the elevation of mankind.
To really enjoy the better things in life  one must first have experienced the things they are better than.
If you resolve to give up smoking  drinking and loving  you don't actually live longer  it just seems longer.
We act as though comfort and luxury were the chief requirements of life  when all that we need to make us really happy is something to be enthusiastic about.
No one in this world needs a mink coat but a mink.
One's first book  kiss  home run is always the best.
Let us have Wine and Women  Mirth and Laughter Sermons and soda-water the day after.
1. If your stomach disputes you  lie down and pacify it with cool thoughts. 2. Keep the juices flowing by jangling around gently as you move. 3. Go very lightly on the vices such as carrying on in society. The social ramble ain't restful.
Love  and do what you like.
Every good thing that comes is accompanied by trouble.
All the things I really like to do are either immoral  illegal or fattening.
The physically fit can enjoy their vices.
The superfluous is very necessary.
There are three ingredients in the good life  learning  earning and yearning.
A sense of wrongdoing is an enhancement of pleasure.
From desire I plunge to its fulfilment  where I long once more for desire.
Unsatisfied desire is in itself more desirable than any other satisfaction.
Luxury is more deadly than any foe.
With renunciation life begins.
As I grow older  part of my emotional survival plan must be to actively seek inspiration instead of passively waiting for it to find me.
Enthusiasm signifies God in us.
Enthusiasm is life.
To sing is to love and affirm  to fly and soar  to coast into the hearts of the people who listen  to tell them that life is to live  that love is there  that nothing is a promise  but that beauty exists  and must be hunted for and found.
O lovely Sisters! is it true That they are all inspired by you  And write by inward magic charm'd  And high enthusiasm warm'd?
Enthusiasm is the most important thing in life.
Enthusiasm signifies God in us.
Life is enthusiasm  zest.
There is only one big thing-desire. And before it  when it is big  all is little.
There is nothing greater than enthusiasm.
Enthusiasm is the most beautiful word on earth.
Boredom is the fear of self.
It is not opposition but indifference which separates men.
Exuberance is beauty.
Enthusiasm moves the world.
A man can be short and dumpy and getting bald but if he has fire  women will like him.
What a man knows only through feeling can be explained only through enthusiasm.
My enthusiasms ... constitute my reserves  my unexploited resources  perhaps my future.
I have always had a dread of becoming a passenger in life.
A continued atmosphere of hectic passion is very trying if you haven't got any of your own.
Nothing is so contagious as enthusiasm  it moves stones  it charms brutes. Enthusiasm is the genius of sincerity  and truth accomplishes no victories without it.
The clue is not to ask in a miserly way-the key is to ask in a grand manner.
Energy is equal to desire and purpose.
What counts is not necessarily the size of the dog in the fight  but the size of the fight in the dog.
All we need to make us really happy is something to be enthusiastic about.
Most great men and women are not perfectly rounded in their personalties  but are instead people whose one driving enthusiasm is so great it makes their faults seem insignificant.
Winning isn't everything. Wanting to win is.
Vitality! That's the pursuit of life  isn't it?
In things pertaining to enthusiasm  no man is sane who does not know how to be insane on proper occasions.
Enthusiasm is the divine particle in our composition: with it we are great  generous  and true  without it  we are little  false  and mean.
The great man is he who does not lose his childlike heart.
Zest is the secret of all beauty. There is no beauty that is attractive without zest.
What hunger is in relation to food  zest is in relation to life.
Wake up with a smile and go after life.... Live it  enjoy it  taste it  smell it  feel it.
What one has  one ought to use  and whatever he does  he should do with all his might.
Let us go singing as far as we go  the road will be less tedious.
And whatsoever ye do  do it heartily.
You will do foolish things  but do them with enthusiasm.
Whatever you attempt  go at it with spirit. Put some in!
Every man without passions has within him no principle of action  nor motive to act.
What is man but his passion?
We always attract into our lives whatever we think about most  believe in most strongly  expect on the deepest level  and imagine most vividly.
You can have anything you want if you want it desperately enough. You must want it with an inner exuberance that erupts through the skin and joins the energy that created the world.
Only passions  great passions  can elevate the soul to great things.
No one has it who isn't capable of genuinely liking others  at least at the actual moment of meeting and speaking. Charm is always genuine  it may be superficial but it isn't fake.
A willing heart adds feather to the heel.
I really do believe I can accomplish a great deal with a big grin. I know some people find that disconcerting  but that doesn't matter.
Charm is a cunning self-forgetfulness.
Charm is the measure of attraction's power To chain the fleeting fancy of the hour.
Pm convinced that it's energy and humor. The two of them combined equal charm.
Nothing great in the world has been accomplished without passion.
If you're a champion  you have to have it in your heart.
Human nature  if it healthy  demands excitement  and if it does not obtain its thrilling excitement in the right way  it will seek it in the wrong. God never makes bloodless stoics  He makes no passionless saints.
All passions exaggerate  it is because they do that they are passions.
If we resist our passions  it is more from their weakness than from our strength.
Be still when you have nothing to say  when genuine passion moves you  say what you've got to say  and say it hot.
The passions are the only orators which always persuade.
Passion  though a bad regulator  is a powerful spring.
Our passions are ourselves.
People who never get carried away should be.
This  indeed  is one of the eternal paradoxes of both life and literature-that without passion little gets done  yet  without control of that passion  its effects are largely ill or null.
When the habitually even-tempered suddenly fly into a passion  that explosion is apt to be more impressive than the outburst of the most violent amongst us.
Optimism  unaccompanied by personal effort  is merely a state of mind and not fruitful.
When enthusiasm is inspired by reason  controlled by caution  sound in theory  practical in application  reflects confidence  spreads good cheer  raises morale  inspires associates  arouses loyalty  and laughs at adversity  it is beyond price.
The world belongs to the enthusiast who keeps cool.
Without passion man is a mere latent force and possibility  like the flint which awaits the shock of the iron before it can give forth its spark.
If you aren't fired with enthusiasm  you will be fired with enthusiasm.
You've got to sing like you don't need the money. You've got to love like you'll never get hurt. You've got to dance like there's nobody watching. You've got to come from the heart  if you want it to work.
When his enthusiasm goes  he's through as a player.
Every production of genius must be the production of enthusiasm.
Give me a man who sings at his work.
A man can succeed at almost anything for which he has unlimited enthusiasm.
Drama is very important in life: You have to come on with a bang. You never want to go out with a whimper.
The world belongs to the energetic.
The real difference between men is energy.
A faint endeavor ends in a sure defeat.
Flaming enthusiasm  backed up by horse sense and persistence  is the quality that most frequently makes for success.
Success is going from failure to failure without loss of enthusiasm.
There is a passion for perfection which you rarely see fully developed  but... in successful lives it is never wholly lacking.
Many of the most successful men I have known have never grown up. They have retained bubbling-over boyishness. They have relished wit  they have indulged in humor. They have not allowed "dignity" to depress them into moroseness. Youthfulness of spirit is the twin brother of optimism  and optimism is the stuff of which American business success is fashioned. Resist growing up!
If you have the will to win  you have achieved half your success  if you don't  you have achieved half your failure.
Someone's always saying  "It's not whether you win or lose " but if you feel that way  you're as good as dead.
To bring one's self to a frame of mind and to the proper energy to accomplish things that require plain hard work continuously is the one big battle that everyone has. When this battle is won for all time  then everything is easy.
We would accomplish many more things if we did not think of them as impossible.
Faith that the thing can be done is essential to any great achievement.
We can accomplish almost anything within our ability if we but think that we can!
Optimism is essential to achievement and it is also the foundation of courage and of true progress.
Morale is the greatest single factor in successful wars.
The will to conquer is the first condition of victory.
The real secret of success is enthusiasm. Yes  more than enthusiasm  I would say excitement. I like to see men get excited. When they get excited they make a success of their lives.
Always bear in mind that your own resolution to success is more important than any other one thing.
It is fatal to enter any war without the will to win it.
The measure of an enthusiasm must be taken between interesting events. It is between bites that the lukewarm angler loses heart.
Enthusiasm for one's goal to lessens the disagreeableness of working toward it.
To burn always with this hard gemlike flame. To maintain this ecstasy  is success in life.
Every man is enthusiastic at times. One man has enthusiasm for thirty minutes  another man has it for thirty days. But it is the man who has it for thirty years who makes a success in life.
Man never rises to great truths without enthusiasm.
Success is due less to ability than to zeal.
I rate enthusiasm even above professional skill.
He did it with all his heart  and prospered.
A strong passion for any object will ensure success  for the desire of the end will point out the means.
Nothing great was ever achieved without enthusiasm.
What a man accomplishes in a day depends upon the way in which he approaches his tasks. When we accept tough jobs as a challenge to our ability and wade into them with joy and enthusiasm  miracles can happen. When we do our work with a dynamic  conquering spirit  we get things done.
If you're not happy every morning when you get up  leave for work  or start to work at home-if you're not enthusiastic about doing that  you're not going to be successful.
The method of the enterprising is to plan with audacity and execute with vigor.
Do it big or stay in bed.
Sometimes success is due less to ability than to zeal.
Zeal will do more than knowledge.
Let a man in a garret burn with enough intensity  and he will set fire to the world.
Knowledge is power  but enthusiasm pulls the switch.
Through zeal  knowledge is gotten  through lack of zeal  knowledge is lost.
I prefer the errors of enthusiasm to the indifference of wisdom.
It is energy  the central element of which is will  that produces the miracles of enthusiasm in all ages. It is the mainspring of what is called force of character and the sustaining power of all great action.
The difference between one man and another is not mere ability ... it is energy.
You see me in my most virile moment when you see me doing what I do. When I am directing  a special energy comes upon me. ... It is only when I am doing my work that I feel truly alive. It is like having sex.
Energy  even like the Biblical grain of mustard-seed  will move mountains.
Energy and persistence conquer all things.
Energy will do anything that can be done in this world.
The only thing that keeps a man going is energy. And what is energy but liking life?
No one grows old by living  only by losing interest in living.
None are so old as those who have outlived enthusiasm.
Years wrinkle the face  but to give up enthusiasm wrinkles the soul.
He fights with spirit as well as with the sword.
It is fatal to enter any war without the will to win it.
Morale is the greatest single factor in successful wars.
The will to conquer is the first condition of victory.
The aim of military training is not just to prepare men for battle  but to make them long for it.
Wars may be fought with weapons  but they are won by men. It is the spirit of men who follow and of the man who leads that gains the victory.
Enthusiasm can only be aroused by two things: first  an ideal which takes the imagination by storm  and sec ond  a definite  intelligible plan for carrying that ideal into practice.
Earnestness and sincereness are synonymous.
Opposition inflames the enthusiast  never converts him.
No one keeps up his enthusiasm automatically. Enthusiasm must be nourished with new actions  new aspirations  new efforts  new vision. Compete with yourself  set your teeth and dive into the job of breaking your own record. It is one's own fault if his enthusiasm is gone  he has failed to feed it.
The same reason makes a man a religious enthusiast that makes a man an enthusiast in any other way ... an uncomfortable mind in an uncomfortable body.
The great composer does not set to work because he is inspired  but becomes inspired because he is working. Beethoven  Wagner  Bach and Mozart settled down day after day to the job in hand with as much regularity as an accountant settles down each day to his figures. They didn't waste time waiting for inspiration.
Enthusiasm is nothing more or less than faith in action.
Whatever course you have chosen for yourself  it will not be a chore but an adventure if you bring to it a sense of the glory of striving  if your sights are set far above the merely secure and mediocre.
Vigor is contagious  and whatever makes us either think or feel strongly adds to our power and enlarges our field of action.
Practice being excited.
It is the greatest shot of adrenaline to be doing what you've wanted to do so badly. You almost feel like you could fly without the plane.
Reason alone is insufficient to make us enthusiastic in any matter.
Nothing is so contagious as enthusiasm  it moves stones  it charms brutes. Enthusiasm is the genius of sincerity and truth accomplishes no victories without it.
Nothing great was ever achieved without enthusiasm.
The world belongs to the Enthusiast who keeps cool.
California is a fine place to live - if you happen to be an orange.
I asked a coughing friend of mine why he doesn't stop smoking. "In this town it wouldn't do any good " he explained. "I happen to be a chain breather."
I have every sympathy with the American who was so horrified by what he had read of the effects of smoking that he gave up reading.
Population growth is the primary source of environmental damage.
A moment's insight is sometimes worth a life's experience.
All the world's a stage  And all the men and women merely players. They have their exits and their entrances  And one man in his time plays many parts.
The environment is everything that isn't me.
The most important thing about Spaceship Earth - an instruction book didn't come with it.
For the first time in the history of the world  every human being is now subjected to contact with dangerous chemicals  from the moment of conception until death.
Air pollution is turning Mother Nature prematurely gray.
The first law of ecology is that everything is related to everything else.
The sun  moon and stars would have disappeared long ago had they been within the reach of predatory human hands.
Hurt not the earth  neither the sea  nor the trees.
Pity the meek for they shall inherit the earth.
As a moth gnaws a garment  so doth envy consume a man.
It is better to be envied than pitied.
For the colonel's lady an' Judy O'Grady Are sisters under their skins.
Fourscore and seven years ago  our fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation  conceived in liberty  and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.
Your levellers wish to level down as far as themselves  but they cannot bear levelling up to themselves.
Men are made by nature unequal. It is vain  therefore  to treat them as if they were equal.
We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal  that they are endowed by their Creator with inalienable rights  that among these are life  liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
To stumble twice against the same stone is a proverbial disgrace.
To err is human  to forgive divine.
The cautious seldom err.
An error gracefully acknowledged is a victory won.
When every one is in the wrong  every one is in the right.
The man who makes no mistakes does not usually make anything.
Error will slip through a crack  while truth will stick in a doorway.
The curfew tolls the knell of parting day  The lowing herd winds slowly o'er the lea  The ploughman homeward plods his weary way  And leaves the world to darkness and to me.
One by one the flowers close  Lily and dewy rose Shutting their tender petals from the moon.
We should every night call ourselves to an account: What infirmity have I mastered today? What passions opposed! What temptation resisted? What virtue acquired?
Each morning puts man on trial and each evening passes judgement.
I think  what has this day brought me  and what have I given it?
Every night before I turn out the lights to sleep  I ask myself this question: Have I done everything that I can.... Have I done enough?
Each morning sees some task begin  each evening sees it close  Something attempted  something done  has earned a night's repose.
Judge each day not by it's harvest  but by the seeds you plant.
Sum up at night what thou has done by day.
Put off thy cares with thy clothes  so shall thy rest strengthen thy labor  and so thy labor sweeten thy rest.
One of the secrets of a long and fruitful life is to forgive everybody everything every night before you go to bed.
The camel  at the close of day  Kneels down upon the sandy plain To have his burden lifted off And rest again. My soul  thou too should to thy knees When daylight draweth to a close  And let thy Master lift the load And grant repose.
To carry care to bed is to sleep with a pack on your back.
Let not the sun go down upon your wrath.
Don't fight with the pillow  but lay down your head And kick every worriment out of the bed.
Shed  as you do your garments  your daily sins  whether of omission or commission  and you will wake a free man  with a new life.
Thou driftest gently down the tides of sleep.
Go to bed early  get up early-this is wise.
Come Sleep! Oh Sleep  the certain knot of peace  The baiting-place of wit  the balm of woe  The poor man's wealth  the prisoner's release  The indifferent judge between the high and low.
O bed! O bed! Delicious bed! That heaven on earth to the weary head!
Fatigue is the best pillow.
A well-spent day brings happy sleep.
It is a delicious moment  certainly  that of being well-nestled in bed and feeling that you shall drop gently to sleep. The good is to come  not past  the limbs are tired enough to render the remaining in one posture delightful  the labor of the day is gone.
Sleep  Silence's child  sweet father of soft rest  Prince whose approach peace to all mortals brings  Indifferent host to shepherds and kings  Sole comforter to minds with grief oppressed.
Sleep  that knits up the ravell'd slave of care  The death of each day's life  sore labour's bath  Balm of hurt minds  great nature's second course  Chief nourisher in life's feast.
There is only one thing people like that is good for them  a good night's sleep.
Sleep is the most blessed and blessing of all natural graces.
It is a common experience that a problem difficult at night is resolved in the morning after the committee of sleep has worked on it.
Sleep: The golden chain that ties health and our bodies together.
Thank God for sleep! And when you cannot sleep  still thank Him that you live to lie awake.
Sleep ... peace of the soul  who put-test care to flight.
Now I lay me down to sleep  I pray the Lord my soul to keep.
There may be those on earth who dress better or eat better  but those who enjoy the peace of God sleep better.
General Quotations about Evenings Let us add this one more night to our lives.
Fools look to tomorrow  wise men use tonight.
When we accept tough jobs as a challenge and wade into them with joy and enthusiasm  miracles can happen.
He who  having lost one ideal  refuses to give his heart and soul to another and nobler  is like a man who declines to build a house on rock because the wind and rain ruined his house on the sand.
Whenever you fall  pick something up.
I have seen boys on my baseball team go into slumps and never come out of them  and I have seen others snap right out and come back better than ever. I guess more players lick themselves than are ever licked by an opposing team. The first thing any man has to know is how to handle himself.
Consider how much more you often suffer from your anger and grief than from those very things for which you are angry and grieved.
We must never despair  our situation has been compromising before  and it has changed for the better  so I trust it will again. If difficulties arise  we must put forth new exertion and proportion our efforts to the exigencies of the times.
What counts in making a happy marriage is not so much how compatible you are  but how you deal with incompatibility.
Noble souls  through dust and heat  rise from disaster and defeat the stronger.
Let no feeling of discouragement prey upon you  and in the end you are sure to succeed.
I'm not happy  I'm cheerful. There's a difference. A happy woman has no cares at all. A cheerful woman has cares but has learned how to deal with them.
Our mistakes won't irreparably damage our lives unless we let them.
When the rock is hard  we get harder than the rock. When the job is tough  we get tougher than the job.
To be happy  drop the words "if only" and substitute instead the words "next time."
Always take an emergency leisurely.
Keep strong if possible  in any case  keep cool.
Happiness is not the absence of conflict  but the ability to cope with it.
When something bad happens to me  I think I'm able to deal with it in a pretty good way. That makes me lucky. Some people fall apart at the first little thing that happens.
Concern should drive us into action  not into a depression.
A man has no more character than he can command in a time of crisis.
Results? Why  man  I have gotten a lot of results. I know several thousand things that won't work.
The tragedy is not that things are broken. The tragedy is that they are not mended again.
Don't curse the darkness - light a candle.
Any man can shoot a gun  and with practice he can draw fast and shoot accurately  but that makes no difference. What counts is how you stand up when somebody is shooting back at you.
Anyone can hold the helm when the sea is calm.
An error is simply a failure to adjust immediately from a preconception to an actuality.
What the caterpillar calls a tragedy  the Master calls a butterfly.
The longer we dwell on our misfortunes  the greater is their power to harm us.
When the going gets tough  the tough get going.
The difficulties of life are intended to make us better  not bitter.
Acceptance of what has happened is the first step to overcoming the consequences of any misfortune.
We can either change the complexities of life ... or develop ways that enable us to cope more effectively.
It is arrogance to expect that life will always be music.... Harmony  like a following breeze at sea  is the exception. In a world where most things wind up broken or lost  our lot is to tack and tune.
The winds and waves are always on the side of the ablest navigators.
No matter what has happened  always behave as if nothing had happened.
Tears mess up your makeup.
When things go wrong  don't go with them.
Nothing is so bad that you have to sit down and go crazy.
When you make a world tolerable for yourself  you make a world tolerable for others.
In adversity  remember to keep an even mind.
Do not lose your inward peace for anything whatsoever  even if your whole world seems upset.
All that is really necessary for survival of the fittest  it seems  is an interest in life  good  bad  or peculiar.
We are not troubled by things  but by the opinion which we have of things.
Things are in their essence what we choose to make them. A thing is  according to the mode in which one looks at it.
We are never so happy or so unhappy as we think.
We exaggerate misfortune and happiness alike. We are never either so wretched or so happy as we say we are.
The most unhappy of all men is he who believes himself to be so.
Happiness does not depend on outward things  but on the way we see them.
The mind is its own place  and in itself can make a heaven of hell  a hell of heaven.
Almost all our misfortunes in life come from the wrong notions we have about the things that happen to us.
Riches  like glory or health  have no more beauty or pleasure than their possessor is pleased to lend them.
Losses are comparative  imagination only makes them of any moment.
Man is only miserable so far as he thinks himself so.
The art of life consists in taking each event which befalls us with a contented mind  confident of good. ... With this method ... rejoice always  though in the midst of sorrows  and possess all things  though destitute of everything.
So long as one does not despair  so long as one doesn't look upon life bitterly  things work out fairly well in the end.
The meaning of things lies not in the things themselves  but in our attitude towards them.
Pain is inevitable. Suffering is optional.
If you are distressed by anything external  the pain is not due to the thing itself but to your own estimate of it  and this you have the power to revoke at any moment.
Little things affect little minds.
Do not weep  do not wax indignant. Understand.
No emotional crisis is wholly the product of outward circumstances. These may precipitate it. But what turns an objective situation into a subjectively critical one is the interpretation the individual puts upon it - the meaning it has in his emotional economy  the way it affects his self-image.
There is nothing either good or bad  but thinking makes it so.
Men are not influenced by things  but by their thoughts about things.
Nothing is miserable unless you think it so.
I can complain because rose bushes have thorns  or rejoice because thorn bushes have roses. It's all how you look at it.
I make the most of all that comes and the least of all that goes.
A great wind is blowing  and that gives you either imagination or a headache.
It seems that we learn lessons when we least expect them but always when we need them the most  and  the true "gift" in these lessons always lies in the learning process itself.
Boys  this is only a game. But it's like life in that you will be dealt some bad hands. Take each hand  good or bad  and don't whine and complain  but play it out. If you're men enough to do that  God will help you and you will come out well.
Sometimes only a change of viewpoint is needed to convert a tiresome duty into an interesting opportunity.
Nothing in life is so hard that you can't make it easier by the way you take it.
We must make the best of those ills which cannot be avoided.
If you have to be in a soap opera  try not to get the worst role.
Never regret. If it's good  it's wonderful. If it's bad  it's experience.
I think we should look forward to death more than we do. Of course everybody hates to go to bed or miss anything but dying is really the only chance we'll get to rest.
What you can't get out of  get into wholeheartedly.
True contentment is the power of getting of any situation all that there is in it.
On the occasion of every accident that befalls you ... inquire what power you have for turning it to use.
All that is necessary is to accept the impossible  do without the indispensable  and bear the intolerable.
When all that hate energy was focused on me  it was transformed into a fantastic energy. It was supporting me. If you are centered and you can transform all this energy that comes in  it will help you. If you believe it is going to kill you  it will kill you.
If you are being run out of town  get in front of the crowd and make it look like a parade.
Things turn out best for people who make the best of the way things turn out.
Experience is not what happens to you  it is what you do with what happens to you.
Whatever evil befalls us  we ought to ask ourselves ... how we can turn it into good. So shall we take occasion  from one bitter root  to raise perhaps many flowers.
There are no accidents so unlucky from which clever people are not able to reap some advantage  and none so lucky that the foolish are not able to turn them to their own disadvantage.
A wise man turns chance into good fortune.
Losses are comparative  only imagination makes them of any moment.
Your living is determined not so much by what life brings to you as by the attitude you bring to life  not so much by what happens to you as by the way your mind looks at what happens.
Riches  like glory or health  have no more beauty or pleasure than their possessor is pleased to lend them.
When fate hands you a lemon  make lemonade.
Trouble is the thing that strong men grow by. Met in the right way  it is a sure-fire means of putting iron into the victim's will and making him a tougher man to down forever after.
To a brave man  good and bad luck are like his right and left hand. He uses both.
There are two ways of meeting difficulties. You alter the difficulties or you alter yourself to meet them.
Turn your stumbling blocks into stepping stones.
One cannot get through life without pain.... What we can do is choose how to use the pain life presents to us.
Never despair  but if you do  work on in despair.
Groan and forget it.
Let us not be needlessly bitter: certain failures are sometimes fruitful.
The most important thing in life is not to capitalize on your gains. Any fool can do that. The really important thing is to profit from your losses.
Disease can be seen as a call for personal transformation through metamorphosis. It is a transition from the death of your old self into the birth of your new.
Find the grain of truth in criticism -  chew it and swallow it.
You gotta play the hand that's dealt you. There may be pain in that hand  but you play it.
Boys  this is only game. But it's like life in that you will be dealt some bad hands. Take each hand  good or bad  and don't whine and complain  but play it out. If you're men enough to do that  God will help and you will come out well.
Life is like a game of cards. The hand that is dealt you represents determination  the way you play it is free will.
Life consists not in holding good cards  but in playing those you do hold well.
The game of life is not so much in holding a good hand as playing a poor hand well.
All I can do is play the game the way the cards fall.
True luck consists not in holding the best cards at the table  luckiest he who knows just when to rise and go home.
The greatest test of courage on earth is to bear defeat without losing heart.
Courage is to take hard knocks like a man when occasion calls.
This is courage ... to bear unflinchingly what heaven sends.
To accept whatever comes  regardless of the consequences  is to be unafraid.
Let us be brave in the face of adversity.
Courage  in the final analysis  is nothing but an affirmative answer to the shocks of existence.
Courage is a perfect sensibility of the measure of danger  and a mental willingness to endure it.
To have courage for whatever comes in life - everything lies in that.
Humor is an antidote to isolation.
Learn to laugh at your troubles and you'll never run out of things to laugh at.
Warning: Humor may be hazardous to your illness.
There is no defense against adverse fortune which is so effectual as an habitual sense of humor.
When we begin to take our failures non-seriously  it means we are ceasing to be afraid of them. It is of immense importance to learn to laugh at ourselves.
I think laughter may be a form of courage.... As humans we sometimes stand tall and look into the sun and laugh  and I think we are never more brave than when we do that.
Keep your sense of humor. There's enough stress in the rest of your life to let bad shots ruin a game you're supposed to enjoy.
Delicate humor is the crowning virtue of the saints.
Humor is my sword and my shield. It protects me. You can open a door with humor and drive a truck right through.
Laughter can be more satisfying than honor  more precious than money  more heart-cleansing than prayer.
Laughter is ever young  whereas tragedy  except the very highest of all  quickly becomes haggard.
A chuckle a day may not keep the doctor away  but it sure does make those times in life's waiting room a little more bearable.
Humor brings insight and tolerance.
A sense of humor can help you overlook the unattractive  tolerate the unpleasant  cope with the unexpected  and smile through the unbearable.
One loses many laughs by not laughing at oneself.
To jealousy  nothing is more frightful than laughter.
Humor is an affirmation of dignity  a declaration of man's superiority to all that befalls him.
Humor is the instinct for taking pain playfully.
Wrinkles should only indicate where smiles have been.
Humor is a means of obtaining pleasure in spite of the distressing effects that interface with it.
If you're going to be able to look back on something and laugh about it  you might as well laugh about it now.
Humor is just another defense against the universe.
Humor is the healthy way of feeling "distance" between one's self and the problem  a way of standing off and looking at one's problems with perspective.
A person without a sense of humor is like a wagon without springs  jolted by every pebble in the road.
Total absence of humor renders life impossible.
If I had no sense of humor  I should long ago have committed suicide.
A sense of humor judges one's actions and the actions of others from a wider reference ... it pardons shortcomings  it consoles failure. It recommends moderation.
Were it not for my little jokes  I could not bear the burdens of this office.
Any man who has had the job I've had and didn't have a sense of humor wouldn't still be here.
Humor is an attitude. It's a way of looking at life and of telling others how you feel about what's happening around you.
Optimism and humor are the grease and glue of life. Without both of them we would never have survived our captivity.
Comedy is tragedy plus time.
Good people are good because they've come to wisdom through failure.
Everyday ... life confronts us with new problems to be solved which force us to adjust our old programs accordingly.
What can any of us do with his talent but try to develop his vision  so that through frequent failures we may learn better what we have missed in the past.
There are more serious problems in life than financial ones  and I've had a lot of those. I've been broke before  and will be again. Heartbroke? That's serious. Lose a few bucks? That's not.
A life of reaction is a life of slavery  intellectually and spiritually. One must fight for a life of action  not reaction.
Coming events cast their shadows before.
One eye-witness is of more weight than ten hearsays.
Facts are stubborn things.
Some circumstantial evidence is very strong  as when you find a trout in the milk.
Evil events from evil causes spring.
Evil and good are God's right hand and left.
Woe unto them that call evil good  and good evil.
Of two evils choose the least.
What is evil?  -  Whatever springs from weakness.
Never throw mud. You may miss your mark  but you must have dirty hands.
Be not overcome of evil  but overcome evil with good.
Evil often triumphs  but never conquers.
The evil that men do lives after them  The good is oft interred with their bones.
As sure as God is good  so surely there is no such thing as necessary evil.
There is no more reason to believe that man descended from some inferior animal than there is to believe that a stately mansion has descended from a small cottage.
Some call it Evolution  And others call it God.
When you were a tadpole and I was a fish in the Palaozoic time And side by side in the sluggish tide  we sprawled in the ooze and slime.
Lives of great men all remind us We can make our lives sublime  And  departing  leave behind us Footprints on the sands of time.
None preaches better than the ant  and she says nothing.
Example is more efficacious than precept.
Children have more need of models than of critics.
Excellent things are rare.
If a man has good corn  or wood  or boards  or pigs to sell  or can make better chairs or knives  crucibles  or church organs  than anybody else  you will find a broad  hardbeaten road to his house  though it be in the woods.
An excuse is worse and more terrible than a lie  for an excuse is a lie guarded.
And oftentimes  excusing of a fault Doth make the fault the worse by the excuse  -  As patches  set upon a little breach  Discredit more in hiding of the fault Than did the fault before it was so patched.
Everything comes if a man will only wait.
I have known him (Micawber) come home to supper with a flood of tears  and a declaration that nothing was now left but a jail  and go to bed making a calculation of the expense of putting bow-windows to the house  "in case anything turned up " which was his favorite expression.
Do not be too timid and squeamish about your actions. All life is an experience.
Let weakness learn meekness.
Experience has two things to teach: The first is that we must correct a great deal  the second that we must not correct too much.
Experience is in the fingers and the head. The heart is inexperienced.
God will not look you over for medals  degrees or diplomas  but for scars!
I embrace emerging experience. I participate in discovery. I am a butterfly. I am not a butterfly collector. I want the experience of the butterfly.
Many of the insights of the saint stem from his experience as a sinner.
Deep experience is never peaceful.
Experience is the name so many people give to their mistakes.
Experience  which destroys innocence  also leads one back to it.
To most men  experience is like the stern lights of a ship  which illumine only the track it has passed.
The life of the law has not been logic  it has been experience.
A proverb is no proverb to you till life has illustrated it.
Today is yesterday's pupil.
All that I know I learned after I was thirty.
Life is like playing a violin solo in public  and learning the instrument as one goes on.
What you really value is what you miss  not what you have.
Everything happens to everybody sooner or later if there is time enough.
Men are wise in proportion  not to their experience  but to their capacity for experience.
Experience is not what happens to a man. It is what a man does with what happens to him.
To a great experience one thing is essential - an experiencing nature.
Good judgement comes from experience  and experience - well  that comes from poor judgement.
When choosing between two evils  I always like to take the one I've never tried before.
Age is only a number  a cipher for the records. A man can't retire his experience. He must use it. Experience achieves more with less energy and time.
Experience enables you to recognize a mistake when you make it again.
Experience is the worst teacher  it gives the test before presenting the lesson.
From error to error one discovers the entire truth.
Strange how few After all's said and done  the things that are Of moment.
Any man worth his salt has by the time he is forty-five accumulated a crown of thorns  and the problem is to learn to wear it over one ear.
Experience teaches only the teachable.
Not to transmit an experience is to betray it.
Motives and purposes are in the brain and heart of man. Consequences are in the world of fact.
Experience is a good teacher  but she sends in terrific bills.
Experience is the best of schoolmasters  only the school-fees are heavy.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
Experience is the extract of suffering.
I have but one lamp by which my feet are guided  and that is the lamp of experience.
One thorn of experience is worth a whole wilderness of warning.
Experience is the name men give to their follies or their sorrows.
Men are wise in proportion  not to their experience  but to their capacity for experience.
Is there anyone so wise as to learn by the experience of others?
An expert is one who knows more and more about less and less.
The shoemaker makes a good shoe because he makes nothing else.
The eyes believe themselves  the ears believe other people.
Drink to me only with thine eyes  And I will pledge with mine.
He had a face like a benediction.
Was this the face that launch'd a thousand ships  And burnt the topless towers of Ilium? Sweet Helen  make me immortal with a kiss. -  Her lips suck forth my soul  see  where it flies! - 
A cheerful face is nearly as good for an invalid as healthy weather.
The worst of faces still is human.
"What is your fortune  my pretty maid?" "My face is my fortune  sir " she said.
Lift thou up the light of thy countenance upon us.
A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
God has given you one face  and you make yourselves another.
I grow daily to honor facts more and more  and theory less and less.
There are no eternal facts  as there are no absolute truths.
Every fact that is learned becomes a key to other facts.
Facts are stubborn things.
But to him who tries and fails and dies  I give great honor and glory and tears.
How are the mighty fallen!
Here's to the men who lose! What though their work be e'er so nobly plann'd And watched with zealous care  No glorious halo crowns their efforts grand -  Contempt is Failure's share!
Failure is more frequently from want of energy than want of capital.
Imagine a congress of eminent celebrities such as More  Bacon  Grotius  Pascal  Cromwell  Bossuet  Montesquieu  Jefferson  Napoleon  Pitt  etc. They would be an Encyclopedia of Errors.
Flops are a part of life's menu  and Eve never been a girl to miss out on any of the courses.
Every man's got to figure to get beat sometime.
Who thinks it just to be judged by a single error?
Man errs as long as he struggles.
Mistakes are part of the dues one pays for a full life.
Mistakes are the usual bridge between inexperience and wisdom.
Be aware that young people have to be able to make their own mistakes and that times change.
The best brewer sometimes makes bad beer.
We must somehow get comfortable with the reality of periodic failure. ... Like a trip to the dentist  the thought of occasional reverses may not make us tingle with joyful anticipation  but then again  it's not the end of the world.
The progress of rivers to the ocean is not so rapid as that of man to error.
All men are liable to error  and most men are ... by passion or interest  under temptation to it.
To err is human  to forgive divine.
Show me a person who has never made a mistake and Ell show you somebody who has never achieved much.
He only is exempt from failures who makes no effort.
Only he who does nothing makes no mistakes.
The only man who makes no mistakes is the man who never does anything.
Life is not life unless you make mistakes.
We all choke  and the man who says he doesn't choke is lying like hell. We all leak oil.
He who has never failed somewhere  that man cannot be great.
He is always right who suspects that he makes mistakes.
The man who makes no mistakes does not usually make anything.
A good marksman may miss.
He that has much to do will do something wrong.
For a just man falleth seven times  and riseth up again.
To make no mistake is not in the power of man  but from their errors and mistakes the wise and good learn wisdom for the future.
All of us failed to match our dreams of perfection.
The greatest mistake you can make in life is to be continually fearing you will make one.
The fellow who never makes a mistake takes his orders from one who does.
Accept that all of us can be hurt  that all of us can - and surely will at times - fail. Other vulnerabilities  like being embarrassed or risking love  can be terrifying  too. I think we should follow a simple rule: if we can take the worst  take the risk.
The greatest general is he who makes the fewest mistakes.
War is a series of catastrophes that results in victory.
Victory goes to the player who makes the next-to-last mistake.
A man finds he has been wrong at every stage of his career  only to deduce the astonishing conclusion that he is at last entirely right.
One loss is good for the soul. Too many losses are not good for the coach.
In all science  error precedes the truth  and it is better it should go first than last.
In the game of life it's a good idea to have a few early losses  which relieves you of the pressure of trying to maintain an undefeated season.
Virtually nothing comes out right the first time. Failures  repeated failures  are finger posts on the road to achievement. The only time you don't want to fail is the last time you try something.... One fails forward toward success.
A clever man commits no minor blunders.
Sometimes a noble failure serves the world as faithfully as a distinguished success.
No man ever progressed to greatness and goodness but through great mistakes.
The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena  whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood  who strives valiantly  who errs and comes short again and again  who knows the great enthusiasms  the great devotions  and spends himself in a worthy cause  who  at the best  knows in the end the triumph of high achievement  and who  at the worst  if he fails  at least fails while daring greatly  so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who know neither victory nor defeat.
The errors of great men are venerable because they are more fruitful than the truths of little men.
There is something distinguished about even his failures  they sink not trivially  but with a certain air of majesty  like a great ship  its flags flying  full of holes.
If all else fails  immortality can always be assured by spectacular error.
In a great mistake.
Any man whose errors take ten years to correct is quite a man.
If you have made mistakes  even serious mistakes  there is always another chance for you.
Life  like war  is a series of mistakes  and he is best who wins the most splendid victories by the retrieval of mistakes.
A man who has committed a mistake and doesn't correct it is committing another mistake.
The great virtue of man lies in his ability to correct his mistakes and to continually make a new man of himself.
It is only error in judgement to make a mistake  but it shows infirmity of character to adhere to it when discovered.
It is human to err  but it is devilish to remain willfully in error.
Intelligence is not to make no mistakes  but quickly to see how to make them good.
Our mistakes won't irreparably damage our lives unless we let them.
Peole do think that if they avoid the truth  it might change to something better before they have to hear it.
We have not passed that subtle line between childhood and adulthood until... we have stopped saying "It got lost " and say  "I lost it."
Ah  how steadily do they who are guilty shrink from reproof!
I've arrived at this outermost edge of my life by my own actions. Where I am is thoroughly unacceptable. Therefore  I must stop doing what I have been doing.
Do not blame anybody for your mistakes and failures.
I believe we are solely responsible for our choices  and we have to accept the consequences of every deed  word  and thought throughout our lifetime.
A chief is a man who assumes responsibility. He does not say "My men were beaten " he says  "I was beaten."
The most considerable difference I note among men is not in their readiness to fall into error  but in their readiness to acknowledge these inevitable lapses.
It is very easy to forgive others their mistakes. It takes more grit and gumption to forgive them for having witnessed your own.
Whenever at an accusation blind rage burns up within us  the reason is that some arrow has pierced the joints of our harness. Behind our shining armour of righteous indignation lurks a convicted and only half-repentant sinner ... [and] we may be almost sure some sharp and bitter grain of truth lurks within it  and the wound is best probed.
The fault  dear Brutus  is not in our stars  but in ourselves.
There's folks 'ud stand on their heads and then say the fault was i' their boots.
Admitting error clears the score  and proves you wiser than before.
Mistakes fail in their mission of helping the person who blames them on the other fellow.
I have known men who could see through the motivations of others with the skill of a clairvoyant  only to prove blind to their own mistakes. I have been one of those men.
I have made mistakes  but I have never made the mistake of claiming that I never made one.
The man who can own up to his error is greater than he who merely knows how to avoid making it.
A man may fall many times  but he won't be a failure until he says that someone pushed him.
Do not be afraid of mistakes  providing you do not make the same one twice.
To stumble twice against the same stone is a proverbial disgrace.
Fool me once  shame on you  fool me twice  shame on me.
There is no reason to repeat bad history.
I try to extract something positive from [every] situation  even if it's just learning not to make the same mistake twice.
He who is shipwrecked twice is foolish to blame the sea.
He who is shipwrecked the second time cannot lay the blame on Neptune.
He that's cheated twice by the same man is an accomplice with the cheater.
If you would not have affliction visit you twice  listen at once to what it teaches.
You can beat the Bear once  but never the same way twice.
Any man can make mistakes  but only an idiot persists in his error.
There is nothing wrong with making mistakes. Just don't respond with encores.
The road to wisdom? Well  it's plain and simple to express: Err  and err  and err again. But less  and less  and less.
I made a mistake today  I made a mistake yesterday. I think it's ... very important to ignore the negative.
The biggest quality in successful people I think is an impatience with negative thinking. ... How many opportunities come along? If you wait for the right one  that's wrong  because it may never be right  and what have you got to lose? Even if it's a disaster  you've tried  you've learned something  you've had an adventure. And that doesn't mean you can't do it again.
A peacefulness follows any decision  even the wrong one.
If you don't accept failure as a possibility  you don't set high goals  you don't branch out  you don't try - you don't take the risk.
When we can begin to take our failures non-seriously  it means we are ceasing to be afraid of them. It is of immense importance to learn to laugh at ourselves.
If I lose  I'll walk away and never feel bad.... Because I did all I could  there was nothing more to do.
A man must learn to forgive himself.
You must accept that you might fail  then  if you do your best and still don't win  at least you can be satisfied that you've tried.
Who would not rather trust and be deceived?
Forget mistakes. Forget failure. Forget everything except what you're going to do now and do it. Today is your lucky day.
There is a way to look at the past. Don't hide from it. It will not catch you if you don't repeat it.
Forget your mistakes  but remember what they taught you.
Supposing you have tried and failed again and again. You may have a fresh start any moment you choose  for this thing that we call "failure" is not the falling down  but the staying down.
Failure is a disappointment but not defeat.
Memories are the key not to the past  but to the future.
Failure is delay  but not defeat. It is a temporary detour  not a dead-end street.
Finite to fail  but infinite to venture.
When in doubt  make a fool of yourself. There is a microscopically thin line between being brilliantly creative and acting like the most gigantic idiot on earth. So what the hell  leap.
Failure really isn't terrible if you can say to yourself  hey  I know I'm gonna be successful at what I want to do someday. Failure doesn't become a big hangup then because it's only temporary. If failure is absolute  then it would be a disaster  but as long as it's only temporary you can just go and achieve almost anything.
Failure is an event  never a person.
It is better to be boldly decisive and risk being wrong than to agonize at length and be right too late.
I've never met a person  I don't care what his condition  in whom I could not see possibilities. I don't care how much a man may consider himself a failure  I believe in him  for he can change the thing that is wrong in his life anytime he is prepared and ready to do it. Whenever he develops the desire  he can take away from his life the thing that is defeating it. The capacity for reformation and change lies within.
I think and think for months  for years. Ninety-nine times the conclusion is false. The hundredth time I am right.
Take chances  make mistakes. That's how you grow. Pain nourishes your courage. You have to fail in order to practice being brave.
Take risks. You can't fall off the bottom.
When it goes wrong  you feel like cutting your throat  but you go on. You don't let anything get you down so much that it beats you or stops you.
You must have long-range goals to keep you from being frustrated by short-range failures.
Life is a series of relapses and recoveries.
We learn courageous action by going forward whenever fear urges us back. A little boy was asked how he learned to skate. "By getting up every time I fell down " he answered.
If I had to live my life over again  I'd dare to make more mistakes next time.
Failure is only postponed success as long as courage 'coaches' ambition. The habit of persistence is the habit of victory.
Entrepreneurs average 3.8 failures before final success. What sets the successful ones apart is their amazing persistence. There are a lot of people out there with good and marketable ideas  but pure entrepreneurial types almost never accept defeat.
Success is going from failure to failure without loss of enthusiasm.
I don't accept defeat as final. Only death is final - and even then I hope for a reprieve.
Never confuse a single defeat with a final defeat.
Men's best successes come after their disappointments.
I've been failing for  like  ten or eleven years. When it turns  it'll turn. Right now I'm just tryin' to squeeze through a very tight financial period  get the movie out  and put my things in order.
Don't let a kick in the ass stop you. It's how you cope that says what you are.
What is to be got at to make the air sweet  the ground good under the feet  can only be got at by failure  trial  again and again and again failure.
They say President Wilson has blundered. Perhaps he has  but I notice he usually blunders forward.
Some of the biggest failures I ever had were successes.
Not all who seem to fail have failed indeed. Not all who fail have therefore worked in vain. There is no failure for the good and brave.
No honest work of man or woman "fails"  it feeds the sum of all human action.
Defeat in doing right is nevertheless victory.
The only failure a man ought to fear is failure in cleaving to the purpose he sees to be best.
Sometimes what you want to do has to fail so you won't.
There are defeats more triumphant than victories.
An error gracefully acknowledged is a victory won.
Nothing succeeds like failure.
Because a fellow has failed once or twice  or a dozen times  you don't want to set him down as a failure until he's dead or loses his courage -  and that's the same thing.
What we have most to fear is failure of the heart.
No man is a failure who is enjoying life.
You are beaten to earth? Well  well  what's that? Come up with a smiling face  it's nothing against you to fall down flat  but to lie there - that's disgrace.
He alone fails who gives up and lies down.
Never give a man up until he has failed at something he likes.
Failure is not in losing  but in no longer believing that winning is worthwhile.
He's no failure. He's not dead yet.
Inside of a ring or out  ain't nothing wrong with going down. It's staying down that's wrong.
It ain't no disgrace for a man to fall  but to lie there and grunt is.
If you have made mistakes  even serious ones  there is always another chance for you. What we call failure is not the falling down  but the staying down.
If a man has a talent and cannot use it  he has failed. If he has a talent and uses only half of it  he has partly failed. If he has a talent and learns somehow to use the whole of it  he has gloriously succeeded  and won a satisfaction and a triumph few men ever know.
Not failure  but low aim  is a crime.
There is only one real failure in life that is possible  and that is not to be true to the best one knows.
Perhaps the only real failure is that implying waste  a conscious and flagrant non-use or misuse of ability.
There are two kinds of failures: The man who will do nothing he is told  and the man who will do nothing else.
The only failure a man ought to fear is failure in cleaving to the purpose he sees to be best.
There is no failure except in no longer trying.
Men do not fail  they stop trying.
Most people live and die with their music still unplayed. They never dare to try.
It is a very dangerous thing to have an idea that you will not practice.
If you risk nothing  then you risk everything.
Men must try and try again.
In the past  few women have tried and even fewer have succeeded.
A mistake is not a failure  but evidence that someone tried to do something.
Man must strive  and in striving  he must err.
The person interested in success has to learn to view failure as a healthy  inevitable part of the process of getting to the top.
Failure after long perseverance is much grander than never to have a striving good enough to be called a failure.
The sight of a cage is only frightening to the bird that has once been caught.
Your success depends on your ability to dream and follow through on those dreams.
Keep trying. Take care of the small circle around you. When you have succeeded with them  then move outwards  one small step at a time.
It is better to be young in your failures than old in your successes.
There might be false starts and do-overs. You are entitled to experiment before you find your calling.
Life is the only real counselor. Wisdom unfiltered through personal experience does not become a part of the moral tissue.
The only failure which lacks dignity is the failure to try.
To know that one has never really tried - that is the only death.
We have to keep trying things we're not sure we can pull off. If we just do the things we know we can do ... you don't grow as much. You gotta take those chances on making those big mistakes.
If you're not failing  you're not trying anything.
If you play it safe in life  you've decided that you don't want to grow anymore.
Those who try and fail are much wiser than those who never try for fear of failure.
A man's life is interesting primarily when he has failed - I well know. For it's a sign that he tried to surpass himself.
To avoid an occasion for our virtues is a worse degree of failure than to push forward pluckily and fall.
The fearful are caught as often as the bold.
Inaction  contrary to its reputation for being a refuge  is neither safe nor comfortable.
They fail  and they alone  who have not striven.
You may be disappointed if you fail  but you are doomed if you don't try.
It takes as much courage to have tried and failed as it does to have tried and succeeded.
Failure is something made only by those who fail to dare  not by those who dare to fail.
You don't always win your battles  but it's good to know you fought.
The man who has done his level best  and who is conscious that he has done his best  is a success  even though the world may write him down a failure.
Many a man never fails because he never tries.
Good judgment comes from experience  and experience comes from poor judgment.
Life is very interesting  if you make mistakes.
When I have listened to my mistakes  I have grown.
Mistakes and errors are the discipline through which we advance.
A stumble may prevent a fall.
A life spent making mistakes is not only more honorable but more useful than a life spent doing nothing.
It is defeat that turns bone to flint  it is defeat that turns gristle to muscle  it is defeat that makes men invincible. Do not then be afraid of defeat. You are never so near to victory as when defeated in a good cause.
Besides the practical knowledge which defeat offers  there are important personality profits to be taken. Defeat strips away false values and makes you realize what you really want. It stops you from chasing butterflies and puts you to work digging gold.
No experiment is ever a complete failure. It can always be used as a bad example.
Failure is the foundation of success  and the means by which it is achieved.
There is much to be said for failure. It is more interesting than success.
Failure sometimes enlarges the spirit. You have to fall back upon humanity and God.
It is often the failure who is the pioneer in new lands  new undertakings  and new forms of expression.
Let us not be needlessly bitter  certain failures are sometimes fruitful.
If I win several tournaments in a row  I get so confident I'm in a cloud. A loss gets me eager again.
There's nothing that cleanses your soul like getting the hell kicked out of you.
Failure is only an opportunity to begin again more intelligently.
Disappointments are to the soul what the thunder-storm is to the air.
The wisest person is not the one who has the fewest failures  but the one who turns failures to best account.
One of the advantages of defeat in life - maybe the main advantage - is that it provides an excuse for change. Defeat... invariably leads to new adventures.
Failure is God's own tool for carving some of the finest outlines in the character of his children.
I quit being afraid when my first venture failed and the sky didn't fall down.
What is defeat? Nothing but education  nothing but the first step to something better.
From their errors and mistakes the wise and good learn wisdom for the future.
Having harvested all the knowledge and wisdom we can from our mistakes and failures  we should put them behind us and go ahead.
I think success has no rules  but you can learn a great deal from failure.
Failure is just another way to learn how to do something right.
There are no mistakes  no coincidences. All events are blessings given to us to learn from.
We will be victorious if we have not forgotten how to learn.
It is the true nature of mankind to learn from mistakes  not from example.
The psychotherapist learns little or nothing from his successes. They mainly confirm him in his mistakes  while his failures  on the other hand  are priceless experiences in that they not only open up the way to a deeper truth  but force him to change his views and methods.
Failure ... is  in a sense  the highway to success  inasmuch as every discovery of what is false leads us to seek earnestly after what is true  and every fresh experience points out some form of error which we shall afterward carefully avoid.
We need to teach a highly educated person that it is not a disgrace to fail and that he must analyze every failure to find its cause. He must learn how to fail intelligently  for failing is one of the greatest arts of the world.
When a man is pushed  tormented  defeated  he has a chance to learn something  he has been put on his wits  on his manhood  he has gained the facts  learned his ignorance  is cured of the insanity of conceit  has got moderation and real skill.
There are no mistakes. The events we bring upon ourselves  no matter how unpleasant  are necessary in order to learn what we need to learn  whatever steps we take  they're necessary to reach the places we've chosen to go.
Failure is instructive. The person who really thinks learns quite as much from his failures as from his successes.
Failure is a school in which the truth always grows strong.
The important thing is to learn a lesson every time you lose.
It's good to fail now and again - you learn a lot more out of failure than you do out of success.
One of the reasons mature people stop learning is that they become less and less willing to risk failure.
Through failure  we learn a lesson in humility which is probably needed  painful though it is.
A failure is a man who has blundered  but is not able to cash in the experience.
Like success  failure is many things to many people. With Positive Mental Attitude  failure is a learning experience  a rung on the ladder  a plateau at which to get your thoughts in order and prepare to try again.
Disappointment is the nurse of wisdom.
When you make a mistake  don't look back at it long. Take the reason of the thing into your mind  and then look forward. Mistakes are lessons of wisdom. The past cannot be changed. The future is yet in your power.
What can any of us do with his talent but try to develop his vision  so that through frequent failures we may learn better what we have missed in the past.
Nothing is a waste of time if you use the experience wisely.
From the errors of others  a wise man corrects his own.
Learn from the mistakes of others -  you can't live long enough to make them all yourself.
The entire history of science is a progression of exploded fallacies.
Don't use the conduct of a fool as a precedent.
Wise men learn by other men's mistakes  fools by their own.
Learn to see in another's calamity the ills which you should avoid.
A man is fortunate if he encounters living examples of vice  as well as of virtue  to inspire him.
The line between failure and success is so fine that we scarcely know when we pass it  so fine that we are often on the line and do not know it.
A series of failures may culminate in the best possible result.
Failure is that early morning hour of darkness which precedes the dawning of the day of success.
People fail forward to success.
Apparent failure may hold in its rough shell the germs of a success that will blossom in time  and bear fruit throughout eternity.
The causes of mistakes are "I didn't know"  "I didn't think"  and "I didn't care."
Failures are divided into two classes: those who thought and never did  and those who did and never thought.
A failure establishes only this  that our determination to succeed was not strong enough.
Self-distrust is the cause of most of our failures. They are the weakest  however strong  who have no faith in themselves or their own powers.
Defeat is a thing of weariness  of incoherence  of boredom.
Failure at a task may be the result of having tackled it at the wrong time.
We fail more often by timidity than by over-daring.
Failure is more frequently from want of energy than want of capital.
Losers have tons of variety. Champions take pride in just learning to hit the same old boring winners.
Lack of will power has caused more failures than lack of intelligence or ability.
The word fate ... is the refuge of every self-confessed failure.
Half the things that people do not succeed in are through fear of making the attempt.
The man who fails because he aims astray  or because he does not aim at all  is to be found everywhere.
Half the failures in life come from pulling one's horse in when he is leaping.
I cannot give you the formula for success  but I can give you the formula for failure: try to please everybody.
If your project doesn't work  look for the part that you didn't think was important.
Ninety-nine percent of the failures come from people who have the habit of making excuses.
One who fears failure limits his activities.
The difference between failure and success is doing a thing nearly right and doing a thing exactly right.
We have forty million reasons for failure  but not a single excuse.
The greatest mistake you can make in life is to be continually fearing you will make one.
How to succeed: Try hard enough. How to fail: Try too hard.
Most men fail  not through lack of education  but from lack of dogged determination  from lack of dauntless will.
Failure comes only when we forget our ideals and objects and principles.
An error is simply a failure to adjust immediately from a preconception to an actuality.
We are less likely to fail if we measure with judgement our chances and our capabilities.
Laziness is a secret ingredient that goes into failure. But it's only kept a secret from the person who fails.
Failure is usually the line of least persistence.
You can't expect to win unless you know why you lose.
Most people don't plan to fail  they fail to plan.
Failure is not sweet  but it need not be bitter.
The ultimate umpire of all things in life is - fact.
Losses are comparative  imagination only makes them of any moment.
I would prefer even to fail with honor than win by cheating.
Disillusion is a natural stage that follows the holding of an illusion.
If any good results to a man from believing a lie  it certainly comes from the honesty of his belief.
And what if I did run my ship aground  oh  still it was splendid to sail it!
Success is a public affair. Failure is a private funeral.
It is not easy  but you have to be willing to make mistakes. And the earlier you make those mistakes  the better.
If you're gonna be a failure  at least be one at something you enjoy.
Who would not rather flounder in the fight than not have known the glory of the fray?
Better a false belief than no belief at all.
A mistake is simply another way of doing things.
The probability that we may fail in the struggle ought not to deter us from the support of a cause we believe to be just.
Three failures denotes uncommon strength. A weakling had not enough grit to fail thrice.
Thou shouldst not decide until thou hast heard what both have to say.
All is fair in love and war.
What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
Nothing can be truer than fairy wisdom. It is as true as sunbeams.
When the first baby laughed for the first time  the laugh broke into a million pieces  and they all went skipping about. That was the beginning of fairies.
Fairies  black  grey  green  and white  You moonshine revellers  and shades of night.
Spirit is the real and eternal  matter is the unreal and the temporal.
Faith sees the invisible  believes the unbelievable  and receives the impossible.
For the facts that make up the world need the non-factual as a vantage point from which to be perceived.
Faith is nothing at all tangible. ... It is simply believing God  and like sight  it is nothing apart from its object. You might as well shut your eyes and look inside  and see whether you have sight  as to look inside to discover whether you have faith.
Faith is the daring of the soul to go farther than it can see.
Spirituality leaps where science cannot yet follow  because science must always test and measure  and much of reality and human experience is immeasurable.
All I have seen teaches me to trust the Creator for all I have not seen.
Some things have to be believed to be seen.
Faith is like radar that sees through the fog-the reality of things at a distance that the human eye cannot see.
Faith sees the invisible  believes the incredible and receives the impossible.
A believer  a mind whose faith is consciousness  is never disturbed because other persons do not yet see the fact which he sees.
We walk by faith  not by sight.
Faith is to believe what we do not see  the reward of this faith is to see what we believe.
Because you cannot see him  God is everywhere.
Sorrow looks back  worry looks around  faith looks up.
You have to believe in gods to see them.
Faith declares what the senses do not see  but not the contrary of what they see.
Faith has to do with things that are not seen  and hope with things that are not in hand.
Faith is the capacity of the soul to perceive the abiding ... the invisible in the visible.
Deep faith eliminates fear.
A red-hot belief in eternal glory is probably the best antidote to human panic that there is.
Our faith triumphant o'er our fears.
Let nothing disturb you  nothing frighten you  all things are passing  God never changes.
Fear imprisons  faith liberates  fear paralyzes  faith empowers  fear disheartens  faith encourages  fear sickens  faith heals  fear makes useless  faith makes serviceable.
Fear knocked at the door. Faith answered. And lo  no one was there.
I knew without a glimmer of doubt that all things in the universe were connected by a living truth that would not relent its continuing search for wholeness until every form of life was united.
Unity  not uniformity  must be our aim. We attain unity only through variety. Differences must be integrated  not annihilated  not absorbed.
By virtue of love is the lover transformed in the beloved and the beloved transformed in the lover.
Spiritual love is a position of standing with one hand extended into the universe and one hand extended into the world  letting ourselves be a conduit for passing energy.
One's life has value so long as one attributes value to the life of others  by means of love  friendship  indignation and compassion.
Patience with others is Love  Patience with self is Hope  Patience with God is Faith.
God is universal  confined to no spot  defined by no dogma  appropriated by no sect.
Trying to do good to people without God's help is no easier than making the sun shine at midnight. You discover that you've got to abandon all your own preferences  your own bright ideas  and guide souls along the road our Lord has marked out for them. You mustn't coerce them into some path of your own choosing.
All our acts have sacramental possibilities.
We must have infinite faith in each other.
What loneliness is more lonely than distrust?
As contagion of sickness makes sickness  contagion of trust can make trust.
Faith in our associates is part of our faith in God.
Those who trust us educate us.
He who has no faith in others shall find no faith in them.
Don't lose faith in humanity: think of all the people in the United States who have never played you a single nasty trick.
You can't leave humanity out. If you didn't have humanity  you wouldn't have anything.
I plunged into the job of creating something from nothing. ... Though I hadn't a penny left  I considered cash money as the smallest part of my resources. I had faith in a living God  faith in myself  and a desire to serve.
Faith in oneself... is the best and safest course.
Only the person who has faith in himself is able to be faithful to others.
I never really look for anything. What God throws my way comes. I wake up in the morning and whichever way God turns my feet  I go.
In order to experience everyday spirituality  we need to remember that we are spiritual beings spending some time in a human body.
We must move from asking God to take care of the things that are breaking our hearts  to praying about the things that are breaking His heart.
Peace ... was contingent upon a certain disposition of the soul  a disposition to receive the gift that only detachment from self made possible.
You must never lose the awareness that in yourself you are nothing  you are only an instrument. An instrument is nothing until it is lifted.
It's very reassuring and spiritual to be connected with something larger than yourself and the inside of your own head.
With all this wide and beautiful creation before me  the restless soul longs to enjoy its liberty and rest beyond its bound.
The country in which I live is not my native country  that lies elsewhere  and it must always be the center of my longings.
The great majority of men use their own short-sighted ideas as a yardstick for measuring the divine omnipotence.
Faith is the centerpiece of a connected life. It allows us to live by the grace of invisible strands. It is a belief in a wisdom superior to our own. Faith becomes a teacher in the absence of fact.
Faith doesn't wait until it understands  in that case it wouldn't be faith.
Your faith is what you believe  not what you know.
That's the thing about faith. If you don't have it you can't understand it. And if you do  no explanation is necessary.
Our body is not made of iron. Our strength is not that of stone. Live and hope in the Lord  and let your service be according to reason.
No  I don't understand my husband's theory of relativity  but I know my husband  and I know he can be trusted.
It is faith  and not reason  which impels men to action. ... Intelligence is content to point out the road  but never drives us along it.
Faith consists  not in ignorance  but in knowledge  and that  not only of God  but also of the divine will.
Faith is an excitement and an enthusiasm  a state of intellectual magnificence which we must not squander on our way through life.
All the scholastic scaffolding falls  as a ruined edifice  before a single word: faith.
Some like to understand what they believe in. Others like to believe in what they understand.
Seek not to understand that thou mayest believe  but believe that thou mayest understand.
Faith is a sounder guide than reason. Reason can go only so far  but faith has no limits.
Logic is the key to an all-inclusive spiritual well-being.
It is the heart which experiences God  and not the reason.
There is no object that we see  no action that we do  no good that we enjoy  no evil that we feel  or fear  but we may make some spiritual advantage of all: and he that makes such improvement is wise  as well as pious.
Faith is the continuation of reason.
If we were logical  the future would be bleak indeed. But we are more than logical. We are human beings  and we have faith  and we have hope.
Faith is the art of holding on to things your reason has once accepted  in spite of your changing moods.
Reason is the triumph of the intellect  faith of the heart.
Reason is our soul's left hand  Faith her right. By this we reach divinity.
It is as absurd to argue men  as to torture them  into believing.
Reason's voice and God's  Nature's and Duty's  never are at odds.
The way to see by Faith is to shut the eye of Reason.
Faith is believing what we cannot prove.
Faith is to believe what you do not yet see  the reward for this faith is to see what you believe.
Faith is believing when it is beyond the power of reason to believe.
Faith is a higher faculty than reason.
Faith is reason grown courageous.
Faith is the result of the act of the will  following upon a conviction that to believe is a duty.
So often we have a kind of vague  wistful longing that the promises of Jesus should be true. The only way really to enter into them is to believe them with the clutching intensity of a drowning man.
Man makes holy what he believes  as he makes beautiful what he loves.
If life is a comedy to him who thinks  and a tragedy to him who feels  it is a victory to him who believes.
You're not free until you've been made captive by supreme belief.
It is by believing in roses that one brings them to bloom.
If you wish to strive for peace of soul and pleasure  then believe.
Loving is half of believing.
A faith that sets bounds to itself  that will believe so much and no more  that will trust so far and no further  is none.
Doubt is a pain too lonely to know that faith is his twin brother.
Doubt is a necessity of the mind  faith of the heart.
For the truly faithful  no miracle is necessary. For those who doubt  no miracle is sufficient.
My faith has wavered but has saved me.
Faith which does not doubt is dead faith.
To believe with certainty  we must begin with doubting.
O thou of little faith  why didst thou doubt?
In the midst of your doubts  don't forget how many of the important questions God does answer.
The only limit to our realization of tomorrow will be our doubts of today. Let us move forward with strong and active faith.
It is impossible on reasonable grounds to disbelieve miracles.
How desperately we wish to maintain our trust in those we love! In the face of everything  we try to find reasons to trust. Because losing faith is worse than falling out of love.
Faith is kind of like jumping out of an airplane at ten thousand feet. If God doesn't catch you  you splatter. But how do you know whether or not He is going to catch you unless you jump out?
Faith ... acts promptly and boldly on the occasion  on slender evidence.
The will of God will not take you where the grace of God cannot keep you.
Without risk  faith is an impossibility.
If it wasn't for faith  there would be no living in this world  we couldn't even eat hash with any safety.
Living is a form of not being sure  not knowing what next  or how. The moment you know how  you begin to die a little. The artist never entirely knows. We guess. We may be wrong  but we take leap after leap in the dark.
Let us move on  and step out boldly  though it be into the night  and we can scarcely see the way. A Higher Intelligence than the mortal sees the road before us.
Faith is an assent of the mind and a consent of the heart  consisting mainly of belief and trust.
The relation of faith between subject and object is unique in every case. Hundreds may believe  but each has to believe by himself.
Whether we name divine presence synchronicity  serendipity  or graced moment matters little. What matters is the reality that our hearts have been understood. Nothing is as real as a healthy dose of magic which restores our spirits.
Maybe the tragedy of the human race was that we had forgotten that we are each divine.
We cannot hand our faith to one another. ... Even in the Middle Ages  when faith was theoretically uniform  it was always practically individual.
Every human being is born without faith. Faith comes only through the process of making decisions to change before we can be sure it's the right move.
I believe devoutly in the Word. The Word can save all  destroy all  stop the inevitable  and express the inexpressible.
To believe in God is to yearn for His existence  and furthermore  it is to act as if He did exist.
The principle part of faith is patience.
I've been readen th Bible an a hunten God fer a long while-off an on- but it ain't so easy as picken up a nickel off the floor.
In prayer one must hold fast and never let go  because the one who gives up loses all. If it seems that no one is listening to you  then cry out even louder. If you are driven out of one door  go back in by the other.
Faith is not belief. Belief is passive. Faith is active.
Can a faith that does nothing be called sincere?
Faith without works is dead.
He does not believe who does not live according to his belief.
I pray hard  work hard  and leave the rest to God.
All effort is in the last analysis sustained by faith that it is worth making.
It is for us to pray not for tasks equal to our powers  but for powers equal to our tasks  to go forward with a great desire forever beating at the door of our hearts as we travel towards our distant goal.
I have fought a good fight  I have finished my course  I have kept the faith.
Faith is not something to grasp  it is a state to grow into.
Possessing faith is not convenient. You still have to live it.
Faith is a curious thing  It must be renewed  it has its own spring.
However much we do to avoid them  we shall never lack crosses in this life if we are in the ranks of the Crucified.
To disbelieve is easy  to scoff is simple  to have faith is harder.
No faith is our own that we have not arduously won.
Faith is a living and unshakable confidence  a belief in the grace of God so assured that a man would die a thousand deaths for its sake.
It is only mercenaries who expect to be paid by the day.
Spirit is the real and eternal  matter is the unreal and the temporal.
Faith  to my mind  is a stiffening process  a sort of mental starch.
Faith is love taking the form of aspiration.
Faith is hidden household capital.
Faith is the soul riding at anchor.
Faith is ... knowing with your heart.
Faith is an attitude of the person. It means you are prepared to stake yourself on something being so.
Faith  as an intellectual state  is self-reliance.
Faith is the subtle chain which binds us to the infinite.
Faith is nothing but obedience and piety.
Faith is a theological virtue that inclines the mind  under the influence of the will and grace  to yield firm assent to revealed truths  because of the authority of God.
Faith is the only known cure for fear.
What's up is faith  what's down is heresy.
Faith is spiritualized imagination.
Faith is the final triumph over incongruity  the final assertion of the meaningfulness of existence.
Faith is an encounter in which God takes and keeps the initiative.
Faith is that which is woven of conviction and set with the sharp mordant of experience.
Faith is a practical attitude of the will.
Faith is a total attitude of the self.
Faith is nothing else than trust in the divine mercy promised in Christ.
Faith is the divine evidence whereby the spiritual man discerneth God  and the things of God.
Faith is a passionate intuition.
Faith is a bridge across the gulf of death.
Faith is verification by the heart  confession by the tongue  action by the limbs.
Faith is a certitude without proofs ... a sentiment  for it is a hope  it is an instinct  for it precedes all outward instruction.
Faith is the proper name of religious experience.
Faith is the soul's adventure.
Faith is obedience  nothing else.
Faith is the response of our spirits to beckonings of the eternal.
Faith is a knowledge of the benevolence of God toward us  and a certain persuasion of His veracity.
Faith is loyalty to some inspired teacher  some spiritual hero.
Faith is God's work within us.
To me  faith means not worrying.
Faith is building on what you know is here  so you can reach what you know is there.
Faith is a gift of God which man can neither give nor take away by promise of rewards  or menaces of torture.
Faith is primarily a process of identification  the process by which the individual ceases to be himself and becomes part of something eternal.
Faith is the function of the heart.
Faith implies the disbelief of a lesser fact in favor of a greater.
The great act of faith is when a man decides that he is not God.
Faith is the little night-light that burns in a sick-room  as long as it is there  the obscurity is not complete  we turn towards it and await the daylight.
Faith is the summit of the Torah.
Faith is an act of self-consecration  in which the will  the intellect  and the affections all have their place.
Faith is courage  it is creative  while despair is always destructive.
Faith is to believe in something not yet proved and to underwrite it with our lives: it is the only way we can leave the future open.
Faith begins as an experiment and ends as an experience.
Faith is an act of a finite being who is grasped by  and turned to  the infinite.
Faith is not a storm cellar to which men and women can flee for refuge from the storms of life. It is  instead  an inner force that gives them the strength to face those storms and their consequences with serenity of spirit.
Faith is putting all your eggs in God's basket  then counting your blessings before they hatch.
Faith is the force of life.
Faith is a kind of betting  or speculation.
Without faith  nothing is possible. With it  nothing is impossible.
Not truth  but faith it is that keeps the world alive.
Truth is simply whatever you can bring yourself to believe.
You can do very little with faith  but you can do nothing without it.
I believe in the immortality of the soul because I have within me immortal longings.
The opposite of having faith is having self-pity.
Out of the chill and the shadow  Into the thrill and the shine  Out of the dearth and the famine  Into the fullness divine.
Faith is necessary to victory.
Faith is that quality or power by which the things desired become the things possessed.
Every tomorrow has two handles. We can take hold of it by the handle of anxiety  or by the handle of faith.
Father! Blessed word.
Faith assuages  guides  restores.
Far graver is it to corrupt the faith that is the life of the soul than to counterfeit the money that sustains temporal life.
I would rather live in a world where my life is surrounded by mystery than live in a world so small that my mind could comprehend it.
We do not believe until we want a thing and feel that we shall die if it is not granted to us  and then we kneel and believe.
Writing a novel without being asked seems a bit like having a baby when you have nowhere to live.
I am living on hope and faith ... a pretty good diet when the mind will receive them.
Faith is the sturdiest  the most manly of the virtues. It lies behind our pluckiest... strivings. It is the virtue of the storm  just as happiness is the virtue of the sunshine.
There is one inevitable criterion of judgment touching religious faith ... Can you reduce it to practice? If not  have none of it.
Strike from mankind the principle of faith  and men would have no more history than a flock of sheep.
Be thou faithful unto death.
Faith is one of the forces by which men live  the total absence of it means collapse.
Pity the human being who is not able to connect faith within himself with the infinite.... He who has faith has ... an inward reservoir of courage  hope  confidence  calmness  and assuring trust that all will come out well-even though to the world it may appear to come out most badly.
Faith is a gift of God.
Through the dark and stormy night Faith beholds a feeble light Up the blackness streaking  Knowing God's own time is best  In a patient hope I rest For the full day-breaking!
To win true peace  a man needs to feel himself directed  pardoned and sustained by a supreme power  to feel himself in the right road  at the point where God would have him be-in order with God and the universe. This faith gives strength and calm.
Faith may be relied upon to produce sustained action and  more rarely  sustained contemplation.
The person who has a firm trust in the Supreme Being is powerful in his power  wise by his wisdom  happy by his happiness.
The disease with which the human mind now labors is want of faith.
As your faith is strengthened you will find that there is no longer the need to have a sense of control  that things will flow as they will  and that you will flow with them  to your great delight and benefit.
The historic glory of America lies in the fact that it is the one nation that was founded like a church. That is  it was founded on a faith that was not merely summed up after it had exited  but was defined before it existed.
The only faith that wears well and holds its color in all weather is that which is woven of conviction.
The primary cause of unhappiness in the world today is ... lack of faith.
You do build in darkness if you have faith. When the light returns you have made of yourself a fortress which is impregnable to certain kinds of trouble  you may even find yourself needed and sought by others as a beacon in their dark.
It is by faith that poetry  as well as devotion  soars above this dull earth  that imagination breaks through its clouds  breathes a purer air  and lives in a softer light.
Religious faith  indeed  relates to that which is above us  but it must arise from that which is within us.
Faith enables persons to be persons because it lets God be God.
Faith makes the discords of the present the harmonies of the future.
A person consists of his faith. Whatever is his faith  even so is he.
In Israel  in order to be a realist  you must believe in miracles.
For the believer  there is no question  for the non-believer  there is no answer.
Life without faith in something is too narrow a space in which to live.
Something will turn up.
Love means to commit oneself without guarantee  to give oneself completely in the hope that our love will produce love in the loved person. Love is an act of faith  and whoever is of little faith is also of little love.
Above all things have devoted love among yourselves  for love covers a multitude of sins.
Love one another and you will be happy. It's as simple and as difficult as that.
Because God is love  the most important lesson He wants you to learn on earth is how to love.
Love is not blind - it sees more  not less. But because it sees more  it is willing to see less.
Since love grows within you  so beauty grows. For love is the beauty of the soul.
If you judge people  you have no time to love them.
The mystery of love is greater than the mystery of death.
Hatred paralyzes life  love releases it. Hatred confuses life  love harmonizes it. Hatred darkens life  love illumines it.
Whenever you are confronted with an opponent  conquer him with love.
Time is too slow for those who wait  too swift for those who fear  too long for those who grieve  too short for those who rejoice  but for those who love  time is eternity.
Nobody has ever measured  not even poets  how much the heart can hold.
Tell me who admires and loves you  and I will tell you who you are.
I have been astonished that men could die martyrs for their religion I have shudder'd at it. I shudder no more. I could be martyr'd for my religion Love is my religion And I could die for that. I could die for you.
Bitterness imprisons life  love releases it. Bitterness paralyzes life  love empowers it. Bitterness sours life  love sweetens it. Bitterness sickens life  love heals it. Bitterness blinds life  love anoints its eyes.
No cord nor cable can so forcibly draw  or hold so fast  as love can do with a twined thread.
I believe that life is given us so that we may grow in love  and I believe that God is in me as the sun is in the color and fragrance of a flower.
There is only one path to Heaven. On Earth  we call it Love.
Treasure the love you receive above all. It will survive long after your gold and good health have vanished.
Give all to love  obey thy heart.
Tis the most tender part of love  each other to forgive.
Never forget the three powerful resources you always have available to you: love  prayer and forgiveness.
Love blinds us to faults  hatred to virtues.
Agape is disinterested love. . . . Agape does not begin by discriminating between worthy and unworthy people  or any qualities people possess. It begins by loving others for their sakes. . . . Therefore  agape makes no distinction between friend and enemy  it is directed toward both.
Do not waste time bothering whether you "love" your neighbor  act as if you did. As soon as we do this we find one of the great secrets. When you are behaving as if you loved someone  you will presently come to love him. If you injure someone you dislike  you will find yourself disliking him more. If you do him a good turn  you will find yourself disliking him less.
We are obliged to love one another. We are not strictly bound to "like" one another.
To love one's neighbors  to love one's enemies  to love everything - to love God in all His manifestations - human love serves to love those dear to us but to love one's enemies we need divine love.
Love is what we were borne with. Fear is what we learned here.
The higher animals are in a sense drawn into Man when he loves them and makes them (as he does) much more nearly human than they would otherwise be.
He that loveth his brother abideth in the light  and there is none occasion of stumbling in him.
Beloved  let us love one another: for love is of God  and every one that loveth is born of God  and knoweth God.
We're born alone  we live alone  we die alone. Only through our love and friendship can we create the illusion for the moment that we're not alone.
Love and work are the cornerstones of our humanness.
That best portion of a good man's life  His little  nameless  unremembered acts Of kindness and of love.
A thing of beauty is a joy forever  Its loveliness increases  it will never Pass into nothingness.
God loves us the way we are  but too much to leave us that way.
Though our feelings come and go  God's love for us does not.
Love is a fruit in season at all times  and within reach of every hand.
All wise people say the same thing  that you are deserving of love  and that it's all here now  everything you need. When you pray  you are not starting the conversation from scratch  just remembering to plug back into a conversation that's always in progress.
Speak to me of love  said St Francis to the almond tree  and the tree blossomed.
Faith is the continuation of reason.
Faith is to believe what we do not see  and the reward of this faith is to see what we believe.
An outward and visible sign of an inward and spiritual grace.
AH I have seen teaches me to trust the Creator for all I have not seen.
Faith is the substance of things hoped for  the evidence of things not seen.
Let us have faith that right makes might  and in that faith  let us  to the end  dare to do our duty as we understand it.
Here I stand. I can do no otherwise. God help me. Amen.
There lives more faith in honest doubt  Believe me  than in half the creeds.
I have fought a good fight  I have finished my course  I have kept the faith.
Faith is the force of life.
I can believe anything  provided it is incredible.
There is no such thing as white lies  a lie is as black as a coalpit  and twice as foul.
Round numbers are always false.
False in one thing  false in everything
Falsehoods not only disagree with truths  but usually quarrel among themselves.
Adlai Stevenson - a Henry James character in a Reader's Digest world.
Glory is fleeting  but obscurity is forever.
Have regard for your name  since it will remain for you longer than a great store of gold.
I have touch'd the highest point of all my greatness  And from that full meridian of my glory I haste now to my setting.
Men are much more unwilling to have their weaknesses and their imperfections known than their crimes.
One of the drawbacks of Fame is that one can never escape from it.
Popularity is a crime from the moment it is sought  it is only a virtue where men have it whether they will or not.
That sovereign of insufferables.
The only man who wasn't spoilt by being lionized was Daniel.
The ordinary man casts a shadow in a way we do not quite understand. The man of genius casts light.
Though familiarity may not breed contempt  it takes off the edge of admiration.
When I pass my name in such large letters I blush  but at the same time instinctively raise my hat.
Fame is the sum of the misunderstanding that gathers about a new name.
What a heavy burden is a name that has become too famous.
Now when I bore people at a party  they think it's their fault.
One must choose between Obscurity with Efficiency  and Fame with its inevitable collateral of Bluff.
One lives in the hope of becoming a memory.
After I am dead  I would rather have men ask why Cato has no monument than why he had one.
Fame usually comes to those who are thinking about something else.
The greatest monarch on the proudest throne is obliged to sit upon his own arse.
All celebrated people lose dignity on a close view.
A celebrity is a person known for his well-knownness. Celebrities intensify their celebrity images simply by being well known for relations among themselves. By a kind of symbiosis  celebrities live off each other.
Before such a prodigious career  judgement is torn between blame and admiration.
Famous remarks are very seldom quoted correctly.
It is strange how the memory of a man may float to posterity on what he would have himself regarded as the most trifling of his works.
To be somebody you must last.
The world  like an accomplished hostess  pays most attention to those whom it will soonest forget.
Public opinion: a vulgar  impertinent  anonymous tyrant who deliberately makes life unpleasant for any one of us who is not content to be the average man.
Man's attitude toward great qualities in others is often the same as toward high mountains - he admires them but he prefers to walk around them.
All the fame I look for in life is to have lived it quietly.
A celebrity is one who is known to many persons he is glad he doesn't know.
Fame is a bee It has a song - It has a sting - Ah  too  it has a wing.
A sign of a celebrity is often that his name is worth more than his services.
Martyrdom is the only way a man can become famous without ability.
He that hath the name to be an early riser may sleep till noon.
Some day each of us will be famous for fifteen minutes.
I awoke one morning and found myself famous.
To many fame comes too late.
If you would not be forgotten as soon as you are dead  either write things worth reading or do things worth writing.
Men think highly of those who rise rapidly in the world  whereas nothing rises quicker than dust  straw  and feathers.
Fame is the perfume of heroic deeds.
Fame is but the breath of the people  and that often unwholesome.
No true and permanent Fame can be founded except in labors which promote the happiness of mankind.
What a heavy burden is a name that has become too famous.
In fame's temple there is always a niche to be found for rich dunces  importunate scoundrels  or successful butchers of the human race.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
Though familiarity may not breed contempt  it takes off the edge of admiration.
The living together for three long  rainy days in the country has done more to dispel love than all the perfidies in love that have ever been committed.
He who has daughters is always a shepherd.
I am married to Beatrice Salkeld  a painter. We have no children  except me.
I don't know who my grandfather was  I am much more concerned to know what his grandson will be.
I have called the principle  by which each slight variation  if useful  is preserved by the term of Natural Selection.
Mothers can get weaned as well as babies.
There are no illegitimate children - only illegitimate parents.
All happy families resemble one another  every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.
The dark  uneasy world of family life - where the greatest can fail and the humblest succeed.
As a general thing  when a woman wears the pants in a family  she has a good right to them.
I am he As you are me And we are all together.
Of all my wife's relations I like myself the best.
There is nothing like staying at home for real comfort.
When family relations are no longer harmonious  we have filial children and devoted parents.
The family is the American fascism.
The thing that impresses me most about North America is the way parents obey their children.
Who of us is mature enough for offspring before the offspring themselves arrive? The value of marriage is not that adults produce children but that children produce adults.
Absence is one of the most useful ingredients of family life  and to do it rightly is an art like any other.
No matter how many communes anybody invents  the family always creeps back.
There are fathers who do not love their children  there is no grandfather who does not adore his grandson.
The most important thing a father can do for his children is to love their mother.
Today  while the titular head of the family may still be the father  everyone knows that he is little more than chairman  at most  of the entertainment committee.
A mother's love for her child is like nothing else in the world. It knows no aw  no pity  it dares all things and crushes down remorselessly all that stands in its path.
Mother love has been much maligned. An over mothered boy may go through life expecting each new woman to love him the way his mother did. Her love may make any other love seem inadequate. But an unloved boy would be even more likely to idealize love. I don't think it's possible for a mother or father to love a child too much.
Unconditional love is loving your kids for who they are  not for what they do ... it isn't something you will achieve every minute of every day. But it is the thought we must hold in our hearts every day.
The most important thing a father can do for his children is to love their mother.
Where does the family start? It starts with a young man falling in love with a girl - no superior alternative has yet been found.
Of course if you like your kids  if you love them from the moment they begin  you yourself begin all over again  in them and with them.
You can see them alongside the shuffleboard courts in Florida or on the porches of the old folks' homes up north.... They are in love  they have always been in love  although sometimes they would have denied it. And because they have been in love they have survived everything that life could throw at them  even their own failures.
In family life  love is the oil that eases friction  the cement that binds closer together  and the music that brings harmony.
Family love is messy  clinging  and of an annoying and repetitive pattern  like bad wallpaper.
In truth a family is what you make it. It is made strong  not by number of heads counted at the dinner table  but by the rituals you help family members create  by the memories you share  by the commitment of time  caring  and love you show to one another  and by the hopes for the future you have as individuals and as a unit.
[A mother] discovers with great delight that one does not love one's children just because they are one's children but because of the friendship formed while raising them.
The Family is the Country of the heart. There is an angel in the Family who  by the mysterious influence of grace  of sweetness  and of love  renders the fulfillment of duties less wearisome  sorrows less bitter. The only pure joys unmixed with sadness.
Smile at each other  smile at your wife  smile at your husband  smile at your children  smile at each other - it doesn't matter who it is and that will help you to grow up in greater love for each other.
No man has ever lived that had enough of children's gratitude or woman's love.
I take my children everywhere  but they always find their way back home.
Happiness is having a large  loving  caring  close-knit family in another city.
The real question isn't whether or not you love your kids  but how well you are able to demonstrate your love and caring so that your children really feel loved.
The last step in parental love involves the release of the beloved  the willing cutting of the cord that would otherwise keep the child in a state of emotional dependence.
So if you have a grandma  Thank the Good Lord up above  And give Grandmama hugs and kisses  For grandmothers are to love.
Oh  I love to see a man with a cigar. It reminds me of my grandfather. Morning to night  he used to sit with a great big stogie dangling from his lips. Oh  the hours we kids used to spend sitting on his lap  playing with the yellow whiskers beneath his nose. Then he'd take out his teeth with the cigar still in them and chase us around the room! We'd all laugh and laugh . . . then suddenly Grampa's mood would change  and we'd all have to run for our lives. . . . You can't buy memories like that.
Children begin by loving their parents. After a time they judge them. Rarely  if ever  do they forgive them.
It is my pleasure that my children are free and happy  and unrestrained by parental tyranny. Love is the chain whereby to bind a child to its parents.
Perfect love sometimes does not come until the first grandchild.
The reason grandparents and grandchildren get along so well is that they have a common enemy.
The whole world is my family.
To us  family means putting your arms around each other and being there.
The happiest moments of my life have been the few which I have passed at home in the bosom of my family.
The family with an old person in it possesses a jewel.
Babies are such a nice way to start people.
Each time a new baby is born there is a possibility of reprieve. Each child is a new being  a potential prophet  a new spiritual prince  a new spark of light precipitated into the outer darkness.
Bringing a child into the world is the greatest act of hope there is.
Children are the world's most valuable resource and its best hope for the future.
Blessed be childhood  which brings down something of heaven into the midst of our rough earthliness.
Children are the bridge to heaven.
We are given children to test us and make us more spiritual.
One laugh of a child will make the holiest day more sacred still.
Children are the true connoisseurs. What's precious to them has no price - only value.
There are no seven wonders of the world in the eyes of a child. There are seven million.
Children  like animals  use all their senses to discover the world. Then artists come along and discover it the same way all over again.
The only artists for whom I would make way are - children. For me the paintings of children belong side by side with the works of the masters.
Why  a four-year-old child could understand this report. Run out and find me a four-year-old child.
Adults are always asking little kids what they want to be when they grow up - 'cause they're looking for ideas.
What do we teach our children? . . . We should say to each of them: Do you know what you are? You are a marvel. You are unique . . . You may become a Shakespeare  a Michelangelo  a Beethoven. You have the capacity for anything.
By giving children lots of affection  you can help fill them with love and acceptance of themselves. Then that's what they will have to give away.
Teaching kids to count is fine  but teaching them what counts is best.
It is infinitely more useful for a child to hear a story told by a person than by computer. Because the greatest part of the learning experience lies not in the particular words of the story but in the involvement with the individual reading it.
The parents exist to teach the child  but also they must learn what the child has to teach them  and the child has a very great deal to teach them.
Grown men can learn from very little children for the hearts of little children are pure. Therefore  the Great Spirit may show to them many things which older people miss.
Children have a remarkable talent for not taking the adult world with the kind of respect we are so confident it ought to be given. To the irritation of authority figures of all sorts  children expend considerable energy in "clowning around." They refuse to appreciate the gravity of our monumental concerns  while we forget that if we were to become more like children our concerns might not be so monumental.
Youth I Stay close to the young  and a little rubs off.
Those who love the young best stay young longer.
As long as I continue to hear "normal" people telling me I am too childish  I know I'm doing just fine.
One of the most obvious facts about grownups to a child is that they have forgotten what it is like to be a child.
All of us collect fortunes when we are children. A fortune of colors  of lights  and darkness  of movement  of tensions. Some of us have the fantastic chance to go back to his fortune when grown up.
So  like a forgotten fire  a childhood can always flare up again within us.
The great man is he that does not lose his child-heart.
What God is to the world  parents are to their children.
Honor your father and your mother.
Honor your father and mother  even as you honor God  for all three were partners in your creation.
When I was a boy of fourteen  my father was so ignorant I could hardly stand to have the old man around. But when I got to be twenty-one  I was astonished at how much the old man had learned in seven years.
Remember  no matter how many candles you blow out this year  there's one gal who will always think of you as young  strong and handsome - your mother.
There's no way to be a perfect mother and a million ways to be a good one.
God could not be everywhere  therefore he made mothers.
Parents are often so busy with the physical rearing of children that they miss the glory of parenthood  just as the grandeur of the trees is lost when raking leaves.
The best inheritance a parent can give his children is a few minutes of his time each day.
If I had known how wonderful it would be to have grandchildren  I'd have had them first.
Few things are more delightful than grandchildren fighting over your lap.
The greatest sweetener of human life is Friendship.
A friend might well be reckoned the masterpiece of nature.
Of all the things which wisdom provides to make us entirely happy  much the greatest is the possession of friendship.
Friendship is the only cement that will ever hold the world together.
The glory of friendship is not the outstretched hand  nor the kindly smile  nor the joy of companionship  it is the spiritual inspiration that comes to one when he discovers that someone else believes in him and is willing to trust him.
What a great blessing is a friend with a heart so trusty you may safely bury all your secrets in it.
When a friend is in trouble  don't annoy him by asking if there is anything you can do. Think up something appropriate and do it.
A real friend is one who walks in when the rest of the world walks out.
The most I can do for my friend is simply to be his friend.
Friendship improves happiness  and abates misery  by doubling our joy  and dividing our grief.
It is not what you give your friend  but what you are willing to give him  that determines the quality of your friendship.
A friend is someone who knows all about you and loves you just the same.
It is not the talking that counts between friends  it is the never needing to say what counts.
True friendship comes when silence between two people is comfortable.
Friendship is a single soul dwelling in two bodies.
To be a good friend remember that we are human magnets: that like attracts like and that as we give we get.
Treat your friends as you do your pictures  and place them in their best light.
Friendships are fragile things  and require as much care in handling as any other fragile and precious thing.
Every man should have a fair-sized cemetery in which to bury the faults of his friends.
Since there is nothing so well worth having as friends  never lose a chance to make them.
You can make more friends in two months by becoming more interested in other people than you can in two years by trying to get people interested in you.
The only way to have a friend is to be one.
Friends will not only live in harmony  but in melody.
It is great to have friends when one is young  but indeed it is still more so when you are getting old. When we are young  friends are  like everything else  a matter of course. In the old days we know what it means to have them.
Old friends are best. King James used to call for his old shoes  they were the easiest for his feet.
Each of us has a spark of life inside us  and our highest endeavor ought to be to set off that spark in one another.
Sometimes our light goes out but is blown into flame by another human being. Each of us owes deepest thanks to those who have rekindled this light.
There's no way that moving in with your parents is a sign that your life is on track.
Cleaning your house while your children are still growing is like shoveling the walk before it stops snowing.
Insanity is hereditary  you get it from your children.
The best way to keep children home is to make the home atmosphere pleasant -  and let the air out of the tires.
Happiness is having a large  loving  caring  close-knit family ... in another city.
Human beings are the only creatures on Earth that allow children to come back home.
Children have become so expensive that only the poor can afford them.
Never brag about your ancestors coming over on the Mayflower  the immigration laws weren't as strict in those days.
Whenever I'm with my [teenager]  I feel as though I have to spend the whole time avoiding land mines.
They are doing away with drive-ins. Now where are the teenagers going to go to not watch a movie?
Big sisters are the crabgrass in the lawn of life.
My son has taken up meditation - at least it's better than sitting doing nothing.
A scout is a boy who dresses like a schmuck. A scoutmaster is a schmuck who dresses like a boy.
It appears there's a little too much chlorine in their gene pool.
In America there are two classes of travel -  first class and with children.
The best thing to do is to behave in a manner befitting one's age. If you are sixteen and under  try not to go bald.
I think a dysfunctional family is any family with more than one person in it.
Family is just accident. . . . They don't mean to get on your nerves. They don't even mean to be your family  they just are.
My father told me marijuana would cause me brain damage - because if he caught me doing it he was going to break my head.
We're supposed to take our problems to a family adviser. Personally  I've never met a family adviser. They're all off somewhere listening to dirty stories.
The reason grandparents and grandchildren get along so well is that they have a common enemy.
Have children while your parents are still young enough to take care of them.
Let's face it  there's lots of spoiled kids out there . . . because you can't spank Grandma.
Family life got better and we got our car back -  as soon as we put "I love Mom" on the license plate.
You know your children are growing up when they stop asking where they came from and refuse to tell you where they're going.
I hate housework! You make the beds  you do the dishes - and six months later you have to start all over again.
I don't want to say anything about my kids . . . but I go to PTA meetings under an assumed name!
The Jewish man with parents still alive is a fifteen-year-old boy and will remain a fifteen-year-old boy until they die.
Few mistakes can be made by a mother-in-law who is willing to baby-sit.
Adolescence is when children start trying to bring up their parents.
Adults are just children who earn money.
I read one psychologist's theory that said  "Never strike a child in your anger." When could I strike him? When he is kissing me on my birthday? When he's recuperating from measles? Do I slap the Bible out of his hand on Sunday?
It takes about five years for a walnut tree to produce nuts  but this is not true of a family tree.
My father never raised his hand to any one of his children - except in self-defense.
To encourage my little kid to eat I'd sometimes say: "Just pretend it's sand."
Ask your child what he wants for dinner only if he's buying.
Sis  I've been wondering . . . On my birthday mom always gives me five thousand dollars. How much does she give you?
My kid asked if he could borrow ten dollars. When I only gave him five dollars he said  "Okay  since you owe me the other five dollars  we'll call it even."
Never raise your hands to your kids. It leaves your groin unprotected.
Never lend your car to someone you've given birth to.
We were so poor we had no hot water. But it didn't matter because we had no bathtub to put it in anyway.
In most states you can get a driver's license when you're sixteen years old  which made a lot of sense to me when I was sixteen years old but now seems insane.
Home is the place  when you have to go there  they have to take you in.
I love being a great-grandparent  but what I hate is being the the mother of a grandparent.
I want you to know how I feel about my Italian heritage  so I'd like to say a few words in Italian: Verdi  Pavarotti  DiMaggio  Valentino  De Niro  Giuliani. . .
A child prodigy is one with highly imaginative parents.
I've just been to a debutant ball where all the girls were wearing low-cut gowns. It's clear why they're called coming out parties.
When I reprimanded my son for hair like Michael Jackson  he said: "I don't see the problem you wear yours like Michael Jordan."
Watching your daughter being collected by her date feels like handing over a million-dollar Stradivarius to a gorilla.
Insanity runs in my family. It practically gallops.
Keep in mind ... to a dog you are family  to a cat you are staff.
The happiest moments of my life have been the few which I have passed at home in the bosom of my family.
There is little less trouble in governing a private family than a whole kingdom.
None but a mule denies his family.
Fare thee well! and if for ever  Still for ever  fare thee well.
Sweets to the sweet  farewell!
A farmer is always going to be rich next year.
Farming is a most senseless pursuit  a mere laboring in a circle. You sow that you may reap  and then you reap that you may sow. Nothing ever comes of it.
Some people tell us that there ain't no Hell  But they never farmed  so how can they tell?
Those who labor in the earth are the chosen people of God  if He ever had a chosen people  whose breasts He has made His peculiar deposit for substantial and genuine virtue.
The farmer works the soil  The agriculturist works the farmer.
Let us never forget that the cultivation of the earth is the most important labor of man. When tillage begins  other arts follow. The farmers  therefore  are the founders of civilization.
A love of fashion makes the economy go round.
A pious man is one who would be an atheist if the king were.
Every generation laughs at the old fashions but religiously follows the new.
Nothing is so hideous as an obsolete fashion.
"The tradition of the new." Yesterday's avant-gard-experiment is today's chic and tomorrow's cliche.
Art produces ugly things which frequently become beautiful with time. Fashion  on the other hand  produces beautiful things which always become ugly with time.
Be not the first by whom the new are tried  Nor yet the last to lay the old aside.
Fashion can be bought. Style one must possess.
Fashion  which elevates the bad to the level of the good  subsequently turns its back on bad and good alike.
Even knowledge has to be in fashion and where it is not it is wise to affect ignorance.
The fashion wears out more apparel than the man.
Fashions  after all  are only induced epidemics.
When a man is once in fashion  all he does is right.
I have heard with admiring submission the experience of the lady who declared that the sense of being well-dressed gives a feeling of inward tranquility  which religion is powerless to bestow.
Fashion condemns us to many follies  the greatest is to make oneself its slave.
Conformism is so hot on the heels of the mass-produced avant-garde that the 'ins' and the 'outs' change places with the speed of mach 3.
There goes a man made by the Lord Almighty and not by his tailor.
Fashions fade - style is eternal.
And by my grave you'd pray to have me back So I could see how well you look in black.
A man of eighty has outlived probably three new schools of painting  two of architecture and poetry  and a hundred in dress.
A fashionable woman is always in love - with herself.
I see that the fashion wears out more apparel than the man.
Fashion is a form of ugliness so intolerable that we have to alter it every six months.
Certainty generally is illusion and repose is not the destiny of man.
How many roads must a man walk down Before you call him a man?
Heaven is the place where the donkey finally catches up with his carrot: hell is the eternity while he waits for it.
Continuous effort - not strength or intelligence - is the key to unlocking our potential.
That that is is.
Everything passes  everything wears out  everything breaks.(Tout passe  tout lasse  tout casse.)
Whatso'er we perpetrate We do but row  we are steered by fate.
Whatever limits us we call Fate.
Whatever the universal nature assigns to any man at any time is for the good of that man at that time.
Certain signs precede certain events.
See how the Fates their gifts allot. For A is happy - B is not. Yet B is worthy  I dare say  Of more prosperity than A.
Destiny  n: a tyrant's authority for crime and a fool's excuse for failure.
Fate rules the affairs of mankind with no recognizable order.
He who does not desire or fear the uncertain day or capricious fate  is equal to the gods above and loftier than mortals.
The worst is not always certain but it's very likely.
It is a long road from conception to completion.
God keeps the wicked to give them time to repent.
Fortune is fickle and soon asks back what he has given.
Destiny is what you are supposed to do in life. Fate is what kicks you in the ass to make you do it.
That which God writes on thy forehead  thou wilt come to it.
When its time has come  the prey goes to the hunter.
The bow is bent  the arrow flies  The winged shaft of fate.
He has gone to the demnition bow-wows.
'Tis Fate that flings the dice  And as she flings Of kings makes peasants  And of peasants kings.
Thou must (in commanding and winning  or serving and losing  suffering or triumphing) be either anvil or hammer.
We make our fortunes and we call them fate.
Though men determine  the gods do dispose: and oft times many things fall out between the cup and the lip.
The Moving Finger writes  and having writ  Moves on  nor all your Piety nor Wit Shall lure it back to cancel half a Line  Nor all your Tears wash out a Word of it.
The die is cast.
The fathers have eaten sour grapes  and the children's teeth are set on edge.
Call no man your father upon the earth: for one is your Father  which is in heaven.
It is a wise father that knows his own child.
A father is a banker provided by nature.
The child is father of the man.
There is so much good in the worst of us  And so much bad in the best of us  That it ill behooves any of us To find fault with the rest of us.
The greatest of faults  I should say  is to be conscious of none.
The defects of great men are the consolation of the dunces.
We keep on deceiving ourselves in regard to our faults  until we at last come to look upon them as virtues.
A fanatic is a man who consciously over-compensates a secret doubt.
Fear is the parent of cruelty.
We must travel in the direction of our fear.
Once men are caught up in an event they cease to be afraid. Only the unknown frightens men.
People wish to learn to swim and at the same time to keep one foot on the ground.
Fear is not an unknown emotion to us.
So let me assert my firm belief that the only thing we have to fear is fear itself - nameless  unreasoning  unjustified terror which paralyzes needed efforts to convert retreat into advance.
I will show you fear in a handful of dust.
Fear of losing is what makes competitors so great. Show me a gracious loser and I'll show you a perennial loser.
Nothing in life is to be feared. It is only to be understood.
Nothing is more despicable than respect based on fear.
Just as courage imperils life  fear protects it.
Fear comes from uncertainty. When we are absolutely certain  whether of our worth or worthlessness  we are almost impervious to fear. Thus a feeling of utter unworthiness can be a source of courage.
Where no hope is left  is left no fear.
The human race is a race of cowards  and I am not only marching in that procession but carrying a banner.
Men hesitate less to injure a man who makes himself loved than to injure one who makes himself feared  for their love is held by a chain of obligation which  because of men's wickedness  is broken on every occasion for the sake of selfish profit  but their fear is secured by a dread of punishment.
I  a stranger and afraid In a world I never made.
Fear has a smell  as Love does.
Fear can be headier than whisky  once man has acquired a taste for it.
The suspense is terrible. I hope it will last.
A good scare is worth more to a man than good advice.
How does one kill fear  I wonder? How do you shoot a spectre through the heart  slash off its spectral head  take it by the spectral throat?
In grief we know the worst of what we feel  But who can tell the end of what we fear?
The only way to get rid of my fears is to make films about them.
I would often be a coward  but for the shame of it.
Horror is a feeling that cannot last long  human nature is incapable of supporting it.
The horse does abominate the camel  the mighty elephant is afraid of a mouse  and they say that the lion  which scorneth to turn his back upon the stoutest animal  will tremble at the crowing of a cock.
The flocks fear the wolf  the crops the storm  and the trees the wind.
We all choke  and the man who says he doesn't choke is lying like hell.
A man who says he has never been scared is either lying or else he's never been any place or done anything.
All men are afraid in battle. The coward is the one who lets his fear overcome his sense of duty. Duty is the essence of manhood.
Only the self-deceived will claim perfect freedom from fear.
Every day I wake up a little afraid. Only a fool is never afraid.
This is the century of fear.
There is perhaps nothing so bad and so dangerous in life as fear.
The trouble with most people is that they think with their hopes or fears or wishes rather than with their minds.
Fear  true fear  is a savage frenzy. Of all the insanities of which we are capable  it is surely the most cruel.
Fear is the fire that melts Icarian wings.
There seemed to be endless obstacles-it seemed that the root cause of them all was fear.
How very little can be done under the spirit of fear.
The most destructive element in the human mind is fear. Fear creates aggressiveness  aggressiveness engenders hostility  hostility engenders fear-a disastrous circle.
A man's doubts and fears are his worst enemies.
Great self-destruction follows upon unfounded fear.
Fear is the most devastating of all human emotions. Man has no trouble like the paralyzing effects of fear.
Only when we are no longer afraid do we begin to live.
Neither a man nor a crowd nor a nation can be trusted to act humanely or to think sanely under the influence of a great fear.
The worst sorrows in life are not in its losses and misfortunes  but its fears.
No passion so effectually robs the mind of all its powers of acting and reasoning as fear.
The thing I fear most is fear.
Nothing is so much to be feared as fear.
Nothing is terrible except fear itself.
The only thing we have to fear is fear itself-nameless  unreasoning  unjustified terror which paralyzes needed efforts to convert retreat into advance.
It is better by noble boldness to run the risk of being subject to half the evils we anticipate than to remain in cowardly listlessness for fear of what might happen.
There is no devil but fear.
Men who look young  act young  and everlastingly harp on the fact that they are young-but who nevertheless think and act with a degree of caution what would be excessive in their grandfathers-are the curses of the world.
There's nothing I'm afraid of like scared people.
God! Is there anything uglier than a frightened man!
The only thing I am afraid of is fear.
Of all the passions  fear weakens judgment most.
All forms of fear produce fatigue.
The more I traveled the more I realized that fear makes strangers of people who should be friends.
Power does not corrupt. Fear corrupts  perhaps the fear of a loss of power.
When men are ruled by fear  they strive to prevent the very changes that will abate it.
Fear  if allowed free rein  would reduce all of us to trembling shadows of men  for whom only death could bring release.
If we let things terrify us  life will not be worth living.
When fear is excessive it can make many a man despair.
Fear makes the wolf bigger than he is.
One of the effects of fear is to disturb the senses and cause things to appear other than what they are.
What begins in fear usually ends in folly.
In doubt  fear is the worst of prophets.
Fear is the most damnable  damaging thing to human personality in the whole world.
Fear is the main source of superstition  and one of the main sources of cruelty.
Fear is like fire. If controlled it will help you  if uncontrolled  it will rise up and destroy you. Men's actions depend to a great extent upon fear. We do things either because we enjoy doing them or because we are afraid not to do them.
To hate and to fear is to be psychologically ill... it is  in fact  the consuming illness of our time.
Fear is an acid which is pumped into one's atmosphere. It causes mental  moral and spiritual asphyxiation  and sometimes death  death to energy and all growth.
Fear is the proof of a degenerate mind.
Fear is an insidious virus. Given a breeding place in our minds ... it will eat away our spirit and block the forward path of our endeavors.
A man who is afraid will do anything.
Excessive fear is always powerless.
Fear makes strangers of people who should be friends.
O  how vain and vile a passion is this fear! What base  uncomely things it makes men do.
The unknown is what it is. And to be frightened of it is what sends everybody scurrying around chasing dreams  illusions  wars  peace  love  hate  all that. Unknown is what it is. Accept that it's unknown  and it's plain sailing.
No passion so effectively robs the mind of its powers of acting and reasoning as fear.
As many people die from an excess of timidity as from bravery.
If a man harbors any sort of fear  it percolates through all his thinking  damages his personality  makes him landlord to a ghost.
If you let fear of consequence prevent you from following your deepest instinct  then your life will be safe  expedient and thin.
There is nothing that fear or hope does not make men believe.
Fear is the prison of the heart.
I have come to realize that all my trouble with living has come from fear and smallness within me.
He who fears something gives it power over him.
How very little can be done under the spirit of fear.
All fear is bondage.
We promise according to our hopes  and perform according to our fears.
There seemed to be endless obstacles ... it seemed that the root cause of them all was fear.
No power is strong enough to be lasting if it labors under the weight of fear.
Where fear is  happiness is not.
Many fears are born of fatigue and loneliness.
We're frightened of what makes us different.
Fear always springs from ignorance.
We are always afraid to start something that we want to make very good  true  and serious.
The craven's fear is but selfishness  like his merriment.
When did reason ever direct our desires or our fears?
Fear is created not by the world around us  but in the mind  by what we think is going to happen.
Fear is secured by a dread of punishment.
We are largely the playthings of our fears. To one  fear of the dark  to another  of physical pain  to a third  of public ridicule  to a fourth  of poverty  to a fifth  of loneliness ... for all of us  our particular creature waits in ambush.
If your desires be endless  your cares and fears will be so  too.
We fear the thing we want the most.
We are more often frightened than hurt  and we suffer more from imagination than from reality.
Fear  born of that stern matron  Responsibility.
Only your mind can produce fear.
Fear follows crime  and is its punishment.
All infractions of love and equity in our social relations are ... punished by fear.
The only thing we have to fear on this planet is man.
There is nothing in the universe that I fear  but that I shall not know all my duty or fail to do it.
I can stand what I know. It's what I don't know that frightens me.
I am never afraid of what I know.
Fear comes from uncertainty. When we are absolutely certain  whether of our worth or worthlessness  we are almost impervious to fear.
Let us not fear the hidden. Or each other.
We all fear what we don't know-it's natural.
Fear always springs from ignorance.
The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge.
Why should we break up Our snug and pleasant party? Time was made for slaves  But never for us so hearty.
Let us have wine and woman  mirth and laughter. Sermons and soda-water the day after.
The feast of reason  and the flow of soul.
Feast  and your halls are crowded  Fast  and the world goes by.
Your own property is concerned when your neighbor's house is on fire.
The burnt child dreads the fire.
There can no great smoke arise  but there must be some fire.
AH the fat's in the fire.
As lacking in privacy as a goldfish.
She is neither fish  nor flesh  nor good red herring.
Master  I marvel how the fishes live in the sea. Why  as men do a-land: the great ones eat up the little ones.
We have here other fish to fry.
There are as good fish in the sea as ever came out of it.
To fish in troubled waters.
You must lose a fly to catch a trout.
A fishing-rod was a stick with a hook at one end and a fool at the other.
Angling may be said to be so like the mathematics that it can never be fully learnt.
God never did make a more calm  quiet  innocent recreation than angling.
Angling is an innocent cruelty.
If any one attempts to haul down the American flag  shoot him on the spot.
When Freedom from her mountain height Unfurled her standard to the air  She tore the azure robe of night  And set the stars of glory there.
Cheers for the sailors that fought on the wave for it  Cheers for the soldiers that always were brave for it  Tears for the men that went down to the grave for it  Here comes the Flag!
The flag of our Union forever!
Oh! say  does that star-spangled banner yet wave  O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave.
Yes  we'll rally round the flag  boys  we'll rally once again  Shouting the battle-cry of Freedom  We will rally from the hillside  we'll gather from the plain  Shouting the battle-cry of Freedom.
Your flag and my flag  And how it flies today In your land and my land And half a world away! Rose-red and blood-reed The stripes forever gleam  Snow-white and soul-white -  The good forefathers' dream  Sky-blue and true-blue  with stars to gleam aright -  The gloried guidon of the day  a shelter through the night.
"Shoot  if you must  this old gray head  But spare your country's flag " she said.
Imitation is the sincerest (form) of flattery.
Men are like stone jugs - you may lug them where you like by the ears.
A man that flattereth his neighbor spreadeth a net for his feet.
O  that men's ears should be To counsel deaf  but not to flattery!
Their throat is an open sepulchre  they flatter with their tongue.
It is easy to flatter  it is harder to praise.
Flirtation  attention without intention.
Men seldom make passes At girls who wear glasses.
It is the same in love as in war  a fortress that parleys is half taken.
Flowers may beckon towards us  but they speak toward heaven and God.
Flowers are words Which even a babe may understand.
But ne'er the rose without the thorn.
And I will make thee beds of roses  And a thousand fragrant posies.
Consider the lilies of the field  how they grow  they toil not  neither do they spin.
Flowers of all hue  and without thorn the rose.
In Flanders' fields the poppies blow Between the crosses  row on row  That mark our place  and in the sky  The larks  still bravely singing  fly Scarce heard among the guns below.
Tis the last rose of summer. Left blooming alone.
Where flowers degenerate man cannot live.
"Of what are you afraid  my child?" inquired the kindly teacher. "Oh  sir! the flowers  they are wild " replied the timid creature.
If of thy mortal goods thoU art bereft  And from thy slender store two loaves alone to thee are left  Sell one  and with the dole Buy hyacinths to feed thy soul.
Say it with flowers.
I sometimes think that never blows so red The Rose as where some buried Caesar bled  That every Hyacinth the Garden wears Dropt in her Lap from some once lovely Head.
One thing is certain and the rest is lies  The Flower that once has blown for ever dies.
When lilacs last in the dooryard bloom'd  And the great star early droop'd in the western sky the night  I mourn'd - and yet shall mourn with ever-returning spring.
It is easier to catch flies with honey than with vinegar.
A fly sat on the chariot wheel And said "What a dust I raise."
Baby bye Here's a fly  Let us watch him  you and I. How he crawls Up the walls Yet he never falls.
The folly of one man is the fortune of another.
He who lives without committing any folly is not so wise as he thinks.
Answer a fool according to his folly.
To swallow gudgeons ere they're catch'd And count their chickens ere they're hatch'd.
To stumble twice against the same stone  is a proverbial disgrace.
At the end of every diet  the path curves back toward the trough.
Food is an important part of a balanced diet.
It's a very odd thing As odd as can be That whatever Miss T. eats Turns into Miss T.
Never eat more than you can lift.
There is no love sincerer than the love of food.
Kissing don't last: cookery do.
Hunger is not debatable.
To eat well in England you should have breakfast three times a day.
To get the best results  you must talk to your vegetables.
Toots Shore's restaurant is so crowded nobody goes there anymore.
Dinner  a time when . . . one should eat wisely but not too well  and talk well but not too wisely.
There is no such thing as a little garlic.
Even were a cook to cook a fly  he would keep the breast for himself.
No man is lonely while eating spaghetti - it requires so much attention.
A hungry man is not a free man.
A great step toward independence is a good-humoured stomach.
I feel a recipe is only a theme  which an intelligent cook can play each time with a variation.
All happiness depends on a leisurely breakfast.
Cheese - milk's leap toward immortality.
A gourmet is just a glutton with brains.
Vegetarianism is harmless enough  though it is apt to fill a man with wind and self-righteousness.
If you wish to grow thinner  diminish your dinner.
To a man with an empty stomach  food is god.
Hunger is the best sauce.
A man is in general better pleased when he has a good dinner upon his table  than when his wife talks Greek.
If you ask the hungry man how much is two and two  he replies four loaves.
A good meal makes a man feel more charitable toward the whole world than any sermon.
More die in the United States of too much food than of too little.
A good meal ought to begin with hunger.
It is a hard matter  my fellow citizens  to argue with the belly  since it has no ears.
The one way to get thin is to re-establish a purpose in life.
A smiling face is half the meal.
There is no such thing as a pretty good omelette.
Fish  to taste right  must swim three times - in water  in butter and in wine.
A fool's head never whitens.
For ye suffer fools gladly  seeing ye yourselves are wise.
Many have been the wise speeches of fools  though not so many as the foolish speeches of wise men.
Men trip not on mountains  they stumble on stones.
There are bearded fools.
Every man is a damn fool for at least five minutes every day  wisdom consists in not exceeding the limit.
Nothing is more like a wise man than a fool who holds his tongue.
If fifty million people say a foolish thing  it is still a foolish thing.
There are two kinds of fools: one says  'This is old  therefore it is good'  the other says  'This is new  therefore it is better.'
A fool must now and then be right by chance.
Let us be thankful for the fools. But for them the rest of us could not succeed.
Here cometh April again  and as far as I can see the world hath more fools in it than ever.
A busy fool is fitter to be shut up than a downright madman.
With stupidity the gods themselves struggle in vain.
There are some people that if they don't know  you can't tell 'em.
A fellow who is always declaring he's no fool usually has his suspicions.
Stupidity is an elemental force for which no earthquake is a match.
Every inch that is not fool is rogue.
A little nonsense now and then is relished by the wisest men.
He who lives without folly is not as wise as he thinks.
The poor schlemiel is a man who falls on his back and breaks his nose.
None but a fool worries about things he cannot influence.
Nature never makes any blunders  when she makes a fool she means it.
Set a beggar on horseback  and he will ride a gallop.
It is said that a wise man who stands firm is a statesman  and a foolish man who stands firm is a catastrophe.
It is hard to free fools from the chains they revere.
Hain't we got all the fools in town on our side? And ain't that a big enough majority for any town?
For God's sake give me the young man who has brains enough to make a fool of himself.
Who loves not women  wine and song  Remains a fool his whole life long.
What is life but a series of inspired follies? The difficulty is to find them to do.
There is no chance for old fools.
A fool always finds one still more foolish to admire him.
You men think old men are fools  but old men know young men are the fools.
Hain't we got all the fools in town on our side? And ain't that a big enough majority in any town?
A fool and his money are soon parted.
The fool hath said in his heart  There is no God.
A learned fool is more foolish than an ignorant fool.
For fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
Even a fool  when he holdeth his peace  is counted wise.
The right to be a cussed fool Is safe from all devices human  It's common (ez a gin'I rule) To every critter born of woman.
It is in the half fools and the half wise that the greatest danger lies.
If you wish to avoid seeing a fool you must first break your looking-glass.
The fool doth think he is wise  but the wise man knows himself to be a fool.
A fool's bolt is soon shot.
Lord  what fools these mortals be!
He who thinks himself wise  O heavens! is a great fool.
The power that is supported by force alone will have cause often to tremble.
Force is all-conquering  but its victories are short-lived.
Force and not opinion is the queen of the world  but it is opinion that uses the force.
In life  as in chess  forethought wins.
If a man take no thought about what is distant  he will find sorrow near at hand.
Forethought we may have  undoubtedly  but not foresight.
Look ere thou leap  see ere thou go.
I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken vessel.
And when he is out of sight  quickly also he is out of mind.
The world forgetting  by the world forgot.
There is no remembrance which time does not obliterate  nor pain which death does not terminate.
If I forget thee  O Jerusalem  let my right hand forget her cunning.
Who is the Forgotten Man? He is the clean  quiet  virtuous  domestic citizen  who pays his debts and his taxes and is never heard of out of his little circle.
How we remember  what we remember  and why we remember form the most personal map of our individuality.
Reconciliation is more beautiful than victory.
The stupid neither forgive nor forget  the naive forgive and forget  the wise forgive  but do not forget.
Forgetting is the cost of living cheerfully.
Forgiveness is the key to action and freedom.
"I can forgive  but I cannot forget" is only another way of saying  "I will not forgive." Forgiveness ought to be like a canceled note-torn in two and burned up so that it never can be shown against one.
Life appears to me too short to be spent in nursing animosity or registering wrong.
Anger repressed can poison a relationship as surely as the crudest words.
Forgiveness means letting go of the past.
I know now that patriotism is not enough  I must have no hatred and bitterness toward anyone.
Stretch out your hand! Let no human soul wait for a benediction.
Nobody ever forgets where he buried a hatchet.
Anger as soon as fed is dead  'tis starving makes it fat.
Once a woman has forgiven a man  she must not reheat his sins for breakfast.
There's no point in burying a hatchet if you're going to put up a marker on the site.
As long as you don't forgive  who and whatever it is will occupy a rent-free space in your mind.
Courage and clemency are equal virtues.
One may have been a fool  but there's no foolishness like being bitter.
Not the power to remember  but its very opposite  the power to forget  is a necessary condition for our existence.
Once a woman has forgiven a man  she must not reheat his sins for breakfast.
Keeping score of old scores and scars  getting even and one-upping  always make you less than you are.
Forgiveness is all-powerful. Forgiveness heals all ills.
The forgiving state of mind is a magnetic power for attracting good.
Forgiveness is an act of the will  and the will can function regardless of the temperature of the heart.
To be wronged is nothing unless you continue to remember it.
Who understands much  forgives much.
Forgiveness is the act of admitting we are like other people.
Grace fills empty spaces  but it can only enter where there is a void to receive it  and it is grace itself which makes this void.
Know all and you will pardon all.
People are more than the worst thing they have ever done in their lives.
The secret of forgiving everything is to understand nothing.
Speak not against anyone whose burden you have not weighed yourself.
Nothing's easier than believing we understand experiences we've never had.
The heart has always the pardoning power.
To understand is to forgive  even oneself.
To what extent is any given man morally responsible for any given act? We do not know.
The weak can never forgive. Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong.
Only the brave know how to forgive. ... A coward never forgave  it is not in his nature.
Any man can seek revenge  it takes a king or prince to grant a pardon.
To be angry about trifles is mean and childish  to rage and be furious is brutish  and to maintain perpetual wrath is akin to the practice and temper of devils  but to prevent and suppress rising resentment is wise and glorious  is manly and divine.
Hatred is a death wish for the hated  not a life wish for anything else.
Hatred is a passion requiring one hundred times the energy of love. Keep it for a cause  not an individual. Keep it for intolerance  injustice  stupidity. For hatred is the strength of the sensitive. Its power and its greatness depend on the selflessness of its use.
Resentment is the "number one" offender. It destroys more alcoholics than anything else. From it stem all forms of spiritual disease  for we have been not only mentally and physically ill  we have been spiritually sick.
To oppose something is to maintain it.
Dwelling on the negative simply contributes to its power.
To carry a grudge is like being stung to death by one bee.
Resentments are burdens we don't need to carry.
The enslaver is enslaved  the hater  harmed.
By putting his hand around my neck  he slowly strangled himself.
The one who deals the mortal blow receives the mortal wound.
Without forgiveness life is governed ... by an endless cycle of resentment and retaliation.
Malice drinks one-half of its own poison.
I tell you  there is no such thing as creative hate!
Reject hatred without hating.
Hate would destroy him who hated.
In hatred as in love  we grow like the thing we brood upon. What we loathe  we graft into our very soul.
Resentment is weak and lowers your self-esteem.
Hate is a prolonged form of suicide.
Hatred is like fire-it makes even light rubbish deadly.
You cannot shake hands with a clenched fist.
Hate is all a lie  there is no truth in hate.
Hate is not a good counselor.
Bitterness imprisons life  love releases it.
If the will remains in protest  it stays dependent on that which it is protesting against.
Hate smolders and eventually destroys  not the hated but the hater.
It is almost impossible to throw dirt on someone without getting a little on yourself.
If you hate a person  you hate something in him that is part of yourself.
Fire destroys that which feeds it.
You cannot hate other people without hating yourself.
Whom they have injured  they also hate.
Rage and bitterness do not foster femininity. They harden the heart and make the body sick.
I used to store my anger and it affected my play. Now I get it out. I'm never rude to my playing partner. I'm very focused on the ball. Then it's over.
Anger is a short madness.
My mother used to say  "He who angers you conquers you."
The angry people are those people who are most afraid.
Anger as soon as fed is dead  'tis starving makes it fat.
Anger dwells only in the bosom of fools.
Anger and worry are the enemies of clear thought.
Holding on to anger is like grasping a hot coal with the intent of throwing it at someone else  you are the one who gets burned.
Anger is a killing thing: it kills the man who angers  for each rage leaves him less than he had been before-it takes something from him.
Something of vengeance I had tasted for the first time  as aromatic wine it seemed  on swallowing  warm and racy  its after-flavor  metallic and corroding  gave me a sensation as if I had been poisoned.
Revenge could steal a man's life until there was nothing left but emptiness.
Revenge may not be a particularly high consciousness-oriented activity.
The human heart in its perversity finds it hard to escape hatred and revenge.
A man can lose sight of everything else when he's bent on revenge  and it ain't worth it.
The whole human race loses by every act of personal vengeance.
Forgiveness is the sweetest revenge.
One forgives to the degree that one loves.
One is as one is  and the love that can't encompass both is a poor sort of love.
Forgiveness is the final form of love.
The days are too short even for love  how can there be enough time for quarreling?
Forgiveness is the most tender part of love.
The best proof of love is trust.
Love is an act of endless forgiveness  a tender look which becomes a habit.
We are told that people stay in love because of chemistry  or because they remain intrigued with each other  because of many kindnesses  because of luck. ... But part of it has got to be forgiveness and gratefulness.
For me it's not possible to forget  and I don't understand people who  when the love is ended  can bury the other person in hatred or oblivion. For me  a man I have loved becomes a kind of brother.
Today I forgive all those who have ever offended me. I give my love to all thirsty hearts  both to those who love me and to those who do not love me.
Experience is how life catches up with us and teaches us to love and forgive each other.
We never ask God to forgive anybody except when we haven't.
Forgiveness is God's command.
God will forgive me  that is His business.
God will forgive me the foolish remarks I have made about Him just as I will forgive my opponents the foolish things they have written about me  even though they are spiritually as inferior to me as I to thee  O God!
Let all bitterness  and wrath  and anger  and clamour  and evil speaking  be put away from you  with all malice  and be ye kind to one another  tenderhearted  forgiving one another  even as God  for Christ's sake  hath forgiven you.
I have looked on a lot of women with lust. I've committed adultery in my heart many times. God recognizes I will do this and forgives me.
How Forgiveness Helps Us Forgiveness is the answer to the child's dream of a miracle by which what is broken is made whole again  what is soiled is again made clean.
Forgiveness is all-powerful. Forgiveness heals all ills.
Those who are free of resentful thoughts surely find peace.
I can have peace of mind only when I forgive rather than judge.
The forgiving state of mind is a magnetic power for attracting good.
Judge not  that ye be not judged.
It is in pardoning that we are pardoned.
Forgiving those who hurt us is the key to personal peace.
Forgive all who have offended you  not for them  but for yourself.
To forgive is the highest  most beautiful form of love. In return  you will receive untold peace and happiness.
Forgiveness is the key to action and freedom.
Forgiveness is the way to true health and happiness.
Humanity is never so beautiful as when praying for forgiveness  or else forgiving another.
Those who can't forget are worse off than those who can't remember.
Forgiveness is the remission of sins. For it is by this that what has been lost  and was found  is saved from being lost again.
I can pardon everybody's mistakes except my own.
If you haven't forgiven yourself something  how can you forgive others?
The moment an individual can accept and forgive himself  even a little  is the moment in which he becomes to some degree lovable.
They may not deserve forgiveness  but I do.
I forgive myself for having believed for so long that... I was never good enough to have  get  be what I wanted.
How unhappy is he who cannot forgive himself.
I learned that true forgiveness includes total self-acceptance. And out of acceptance wounds are healed and happiness is possible again.
Every man treats himself as society treats the criminal.
To understand is to forgive  even oneself.
Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our debts  as we forgive our debtors.
He that cannot forgive others breaks the bridge over which he must pass himself  for every man has need to be forgiven.
Always forgive your enemies  nothing annoys them so much.
Forgiveness is the noblest vengeance.
There is no revenge so complete as forgiveness.
Many promising reconciliations have broken down because while both parties came prepared to forgive  neither party came prepared to be forgiven.
Forgiveness is man's deepest need and highest achievement.
Abandon your animosities and make your sons Americans!
Her breasts and arms ached with the beauty of her own forgiveness.
Life is an adventure in forgiveness.
The cut worm forgives the plow.
Forgiveness is the highest and most difficult of all moral lessons.
The fragrance of the violet sheds on the heel that has crushed it.
How shall I love the sin  yet keep the sense  And love the offender  yet detest the offence?
Forgiveness is the giving  and so the receiving  of life.
Who would care to question the ground of forgiveness or compassion?
O friends  I pray tonight  Keep not your kisses for my dead cold brow. The way is lonely  let me feel them now. Think gently of me  I am travel-worn  My faltering feet are pierced with many a thorn. Forgive! O hearts estranged  forgive  I plead! When ceaseless bliss is mine I shall not need The tenderness for which I long tonight.
Let us forget and forgive injuries.
Even a stopped clock is right twice a day.
It is easier to forgive an enemy than a friend.
It is very easy to forgive others their mistakes  it takes more grit and gumption to forgive them for having witnessed your own.
When you pray for anyone you tend to modify your personal attitude toward him.
Forgiving means to pardon the unpardonable  faith means believing the unbelievable  and hoping means to hope when things are hopeless.
To err is human  to forgive  divine.
Normal day  let me be aware of the treasure you are. Let me learn from you  love you  bless you before you depart. Let me not pass you by in quest of some rare and perfect tomorrow. Let me hold you while I may  for it may not always be so. One day I shall dig my nails into the earth  or bury my face in the pillow  or stretch myself taut  or raise my hands to the sky and want  more than all the world  your return.
The unthankful heart... discovers no mercies  but let the thankful heart sweep through the day and  as the magnet finds the iron  so it will find  in every hour  some heavenly blessings!
Joy is what happens to us when we allow ourselves to recognize how good things really are.
Good heavens  of what uncostly material is our earthly happiness composed ... if we only knew it. What incomes have we not had from a flower  and how unfailing are the dividends of the seasons.
Be on the lookout for mercies. The more we look for them  the more of them we will see.... Better to loose count while naming your blessings than to lose your blessings to counting your troubles.
The man who thinks his wife  his baby  his house  his horse  his dog  and himself severely unequalled  is almost sure to be a good-humored person.
Every dog has its day  but it's not every dog that knows when he's having it.
We must give ourselves more earnestly and intelligently and generously than we have to the happy duty of appreciation.
There is nothing so bitter that a patient mind cannot find some solace for it.
I thank You God for this most amazing day  for the leaping greenly spirits of trees and a blue true dream of sky  and for everything which is natural which is infinite which is yes.
My private measure of success is daily. If this were to be the last day of my life would I be content with it? To live in a harmonious balance of commitments and pleasures is what I strive for.
Yes  there is a Nirvanah: it is in leading your sheep to a green pasture  and in putting your child to sleep  and in writing the last line of your poem.
Blessed are those who can give without remembering and take without forgetting.
That daily life is really good one appreciates when one wakes from a horrible dream  or when one takes the first outing after a sickness. Why not realize it now?
Thank God every morning when you get up that you have something to do which must be done  whether you like it or not.
When I first open my eyes upon the morning meadows and look out upon the beautiful world  I thank God I am alive.
Each day comes bearing its own gifts. Untie the ribbons.
We can be thankful to a friend for a few acres or a little money  and yet for the freedom and command of the whole earth  and for the great benefits of our being  our life  health  and reason  we look upon ourselves as under no obligation.
When something does not insist on being noticed  when we aren't grabbed by the collar or struck on the skull by a presence or an event  we take for granted the very things that most deserve our gratitude.
Why do some people always see beautiful skies and grass and lovely flowers and incredible human beings  while others are hard-pressed to find anything or any place that is beautiful?
Most human beings have an almost infinite capacity for taking things for granted.
My country ... gave me schooling  independence of action and opportunity for service. ... I am indebted to my country beyond any human power to repay.
Dwell upon the brightest parts in every prospect... and strive to be pleased with the present circumstances.
We are never either so wretched or so happy as we say we are.
The best things are nearest: breath in your nostrils  light in your eyes  flowers at your feet  duties at your hand  the path of God just before you. Then do not grasp at the stars  but do life's plain  common work as it comes  certain that daily duties and daily bread are the sweetest things of life.
Is life so wretched? Isn't it rather your hands which are too small  your vision which is muddled? You are the one who must grow up.
Looking for Silver Linings Our real blessings often appear to us in the shape of pains  losses and disappointments.
Most of my major disappointments have turned out to be blessings in disguise. So whenever anything bad does happen to me  I kind of sit back and feel  well  if I give this enough time  it'll turn out that this was good  so I shan't worry about it too much.
Sometimes the best deals are the ones you don't make.
The advantages of a losing team: (i) There is everything to hope for and nothing to fear  (2.) Defeats do not disturb one's sleep. (3) An occasional victory is a surprise and a delight. (4) There is no danger of any club passing you. (5) You are not asked fifty times a day  "What was the score?"  people take it for granted that you lost.
That which does not kill me makes me stronger.
Not being beautiful was the true blessing. ... Not being beautiful forced me to develop my inner resources. The pretty girl has a handicap to overcome.
The difficulties  hardships and trials of life  the obstacles ... are positive blessings. They knit the muscles more firmly  and teach self-reliance.
Many a man curses the rain that falls upon his head  and knows not that it brings abundance to drive away hunger.
Trouble is only opportunity in work clothes.
Adversity has the same effect on a man that severe training has on the pugilist: it reduces him to his fighting weight.
You will never be the person you can be if pressure  tension and discipline are taken out of your life.
Some troubles  like a protested note of a solvent debtor  bear interest.
Failure changes for the better  success for the worse.
The basis of optimism is sheer terror.
No evil is without its compensation ... it is not the loss itself  but the estimate of the loss  that troubles us.
Let me embrace thee  sour adversity  for wise men say it is the wisest course.
Give thanks for sorrow that teaches you pity  for pain that teaches you courage-and give exceeding thanks for the mystery which remains a mystery still-the veil that hides you from the infinite  which makes it possible for you to believe in what you cannot see.
A Christian could even give thanks for Hell  because Hell was a threat and a warning to keep him in the right way.
To every disadvantage there is a corresponding advantage.
Too many people miss the silver lining because they're expecting gold.
If you count all your assets  you always show a profit.
Too happy would you be  did ye but know your own advantages!
Much unhappiness results from our inability to remember the nice things that happen to us.
If we go down into ourselves  we find that we possess exactly what we desire.
Be grateful for yourself... be thankful.
Keep a grateful journal. Every night  list five things that you are grateful for. What it will begin to do is change your perspective of your day and your life.
There is no wealth but life.
Just to be is a blessing. Just to live is holy.
Life may be hard  but it's also wonderful.
I like living. I have sometimes been wildly  despairingly  acutely miserable  racked with sorrow  but through it all I still know quite certainly that just to be alive is a grand thing.
Be glad of life because it gives you the chance to love  and to work  and to play and to look up at the stars.
To be alive  to be able to see  to walk ... it's all a miracle. I have adapted the technique of living life from miracle to miracle.
This is another day! Are its eyes blurred With maudlin grief for any wasted past? A thousand thousand failures shall not daunt! Let dust clasp dust  death  death  I am alive!
The mere sense of living is joy enough.
However mean your life is  meet it and live it  do not shun it and call it hard names. It is not so bad as you are. It looks poorest when you are richest. The fault-finder will find faults even in Paradise. Love your life.
Life is the first gift  love is the second  and understanding the third.
To have a full stomach and fixed income are no small things .
For one mother  joy is the quiet pleasure found in gently rubbing shampoo into her young child's hair. For another woman it's taking a long walk alone  while for yet another it's reveling in a much-anticipated vacation.
How can they say my life is not a success? Have I not for more than sixty years gotten enough to eat and escaped being eaten?
Sunshine is delicious  rain is refreshing  wind braces us up  snow is exhilarating  there is really no such thing as bad weather  only different kinds of good weather.
Only a stomach that rarely feels hungry scorns common things.
My gratitude for good writing is unbounded  I'm grateful for it the way I'm grateful for the ocean.
Is it so small a thing to have enjoyed the sun  to have lived light in the spring  to have loved  to have thought  to have done?
When something does not insist on being noticed  when we aren't grabbed by the collar or struck on the skull by a presence or an event  we take for granted the very things that most deserve our gratitude.
You say grace before meals. All right. But I say grace before the concert and the opera  and grace before the play and pantomime  and grace before I open a book  and grace before sketching  painting  swimming  fencing  boxing  walking  playing  dancing and grace before I dip the pen in the ink.
Thank God for dirty dishes  they have a tale to tell. While other folks go hungry  we're eating pretty well. With home  and health  and happiness  we shouldn't want to fuss  For by this stack of evidence  God's very good to us.
It is strange what a contempt men have for the joys that are offered them freely.
Grateful for the blessing lent of simple tastes and mind content!
An easy thing  O Power Divine  To thank thee for these gifts of Thine  For summer's sunshine  winter's snow  For hearts that kindle  thoughts that glow  But when shall I attain to this- To thank Thee for the things I miss?
People call me an optimist  but I'm really an appreciator ... years ago  I was cured of a badly infected finger with antibiotics when once my doctor could have recommended only a hot water soak or  eventually  surgery.... When I was six years old and had scarlet fever  the first of the miracle drugs  sulfanilamide  saved my life. I'm grateful for computers and photocopiers ... I appreciate where we've come from.
If only the people who worry about their liabilities would think about the riches they do possess  they would stop worrying. Would you sell both your eyes for a million dollars ... or your two legs ... or your hands ... or your hearing? Add up what you do have  and you'll find that you won't sell them for all the gold in the world. The best things in life are yours  if you can appreciate yourself.
We can be thankful to a friend for a few acres or a little money  and yet for the freedom and command of the whole earth  and for the great benefits of our being  our life  health  and reason  we look upon ourselves as under no obligation.
Health is ... a blessing that money cannot buy.
Happiness lies  first of all  in health.
A sound mind in a sound body is a short but full description of a happy state in this world.
Health is the vital principle of bliss.
If you can't be thankful for what you receive  be thankful for what you escape.
Even though we can't have all we want  we ought to be thankful we don't get all we deserve.
Happy the man who can count his sufferings.
Happiness is composed of misfortunes avoided.
Considering the fortune you might have lost  you'll have to admit you're rich already.
I thank Thee first because I was never robbed before  second  because although they took my purse they did not take my life  third  because although they took my all  it was not much  and fourth because it was I who was robbed  and not I who robbed.
Think of the ills from which you are exempt.
A man should always consider ... how much more unhappy he might be than he is.
The happiness of any given life is to be measured not by its joys and pleasures  but by the extent to which it has been free from suffering  from positive evil.
Better to suffer than to die.
Better a little fire to warm us than a great one to burn us.
It isn't important to come out on top. What matters is to come out alive.
He who limps still walks.
I have gout  asthma  and seven other maladies  but am otherwise very well.
Luckily  I never feel at one time more than half my pains.
Pain is no longer pain when it is past.
We are content to forgo joy when pain is also lost.
The happiest is he who suffers the least pain  the most miserable  he who enjoys the least pleasure.
Happiness is not being pained in body  or troubled in mind.
The end of pain we take as happiness.
You can be happy indeed if you have breathing space from pain.
The summit of pleasure is the elimination of all that gives pain.
I seek the utmost pleasure and the least pain.
A prudent man will think more important what fate has conceded to him  than what it has denied.
It is better to be looked over than overlooked.
Blessed are those who can give without remembering and take without forgetting.
He is a man of sense who does not grieve for what he has not  but rejoices in what he has.
Enjoy the successes that you have  and don't be too hard on yourself when you don't do well. Too many times we beat up on ourselves. Just relax and enjoy it.
For everything you have missed  you have gained something else.
Few love what they may have.
The knowledge that something remains yet unenjoyed impairs our enjoyment of the good before us.
May we never let the things we can't have  or don't have  spoil our enjoyment of the things we do have and can have.
It is not customary to love what one has.
The talent for being happy is appreciating and liking what you have  instead of what you don't have.
Happy thou art not  for what thou hast not  still thou striv'est to get  and what thou hast  forget'est.
Men ... always think that something they are going to get is better than what they have got.
When we cannot get what we love  we must love what is within our reach.
Take full account of the excellencies which you possess  and in gratitude remember how you would hanker after them  if you had them not.
A wise man cares not for what he cannot have.
A man can refrain from wanting what he has not  and cheerfully make the best of a bird in the hand.
Long only for what you have.
The tulip is  among flowers  what the peacock is among birds. A tulip lacks scent  a peacock has an unpleasant voice. The one takes pride in its garb  the other in its tail.
Slight not what is near though aiming at what is far.
Greediness of getting more  deprives ... the enjoyment of what it had got.
There is a mortal breed most full of futility. In contempt of what is at hand  they strain into the future  hunting impossibilities on the wings of ineffectual hopes.
What you really value is what you miss  not what you have.
While you fear missing a meal  you aren't fully aware of the meals you do eat.
To be upset over what you don't have is to waste what you do have.
If there's no bread  cakes are very good.
Not what we have  but what we enjoy  constitutes our abundance.
Not what we have  but what we use  not what we see  but what we choose-these are the things that mar or bless human happiness.
The happiness which is lacking makes one think even the happiness one has unbearable.
We always have enough to be happy if we are enjoying what we do have- and not worrying about what we don't have.
Welcome everything that comes to you  but do not long for anything else.
The superiority of the distant over the present is only due to the mass and variety of the pleasures that can be suggested  compared with the poverty of those that can at any time be felt.
If there is a sin against life  it consists perhaps not so much in despairing of life as in hoping for another  and in eluding the implacable grandeur of this life.
Mankind  by the perverse depravity of their nature  esteem that which they have most desired as of no value the moment it is possessed  and torment themselves with fruitless wishes for that which is beyond their reach.
All your youth you want to have your greatness taken for granted  when you find it taken for granted  you are unnerved.
Do not spoil what you have by desiring what you have not  remember that what you now have was once among the things only hoped for.
It ain't so much trouble to get rich as it is to tell when we have got rich.
What you have become is the price you paid to get what you used to want.
No man can be satisfied with his attainment  although he may be satisfied with his circumstances.
Life is a progress from want to want  not from enjoyment to enjoyment.
We spend our time searching for security and hate it when we get it.
There must be more to life than having everything.
Is there no end to this escalation of desire?
Ambition has its disappointments to sour us  but never the good fortune to satisfy us.
There is no banquet but some dislike something in it.
If we get everything that we want  we will soon want nothing that we get.
It matters very little whether a man is discontented in the name of pessimism or progress  if his discontent does in fact paralyse his power of appreciating what he has got.
The best things in life are appreciated most after they have been lost.
Only with a new ruler do you realize the value of the old.
I remember those happy days and often wish I could speak into the ears of the dead the gratitude which was due to them in life and so ill-returned.
You can't appreciate home until you've left it  money till it's spent  your wife till she's joined a woman's club  nor Old Glory till you see it hanging on a broomstick on the shanty of a consul in a foreign town.
Birds sing after a storm  why shouldn't people feel as free to delight in whatever remains to them?
Think of all the beauty still left around you and be happy.
Oh  my friend  it's not what they take away from you that counts-it's what you do with what you have left.
God gave you a gift of 86 400 seconds today. Have you used one to say "thank you"?
So long as we can lose any happiness  we possess some.
Happiness always looks small while you hold it in your hands  but let it go  and you learn at once how big and precious it is.
After my mother's death  I began to see her as she had really been.... It was less like losing someone than discovering someone.
We never know the worth of water till the well is dry.
The way to love anything is to realize that it may be lost.
Jesus  please teach me to appreciate what I have before time forces me to appreciate what I had.
Eden is that old-fashioned house we dwell in every day Without suspecting our abode  until we drive away.
Generally the man with a good wife  or the woman with a good husband  or the children with good parents discover too late the goodness they overlooked while it was in full bloom.
Jesus  please teach me to appreciate what I have  before time forces me to appreciate what I had.
The Pilgrims made seven times more graves than huts. No Americans have been more impoverished than these who  nevertheless  set aside a day of thanksgiving.
The greatest saint in the world is not he who prays most or fasts most  it is not he who gives alms  or is most eminent for temperance  chastity or justice. It is he who is most thankful to God.
Not what we say about our blessings  but how we use them  is the true measure of our thanksgiving.
The unthankful heart... discovers no mercies  but the thankful heart... will find  in every hour  some heavenly blessings.
Thanksgiving is a sure index of spiritual health.
If the only prayer you say in your whole life is "Thank you " that would suffice.
Who does not thank for little will not thank for much.
The beginning of men's rebellion against God was  and is  the lack of a thankful heart.
A thankful heart is not only the greatest virtue  but the parent of all other virtues.
Seeds of discouragement will not grow in the thankful heart.
The private and personal blessings we enjoy-the blessings of immunity  safeguard  liberty and integrity- deserve the thanksgiving of a whole life.
One of life's gifts is that each of us  no matter how tired and downtrodden  finds reasons for thankfulness.
Joy is the simplest form of gratitude.
He who receives a benefit with gratitude repays the first installment on his debt.
Gratitude unlocks the fullness of life. It turns what we have into enough  and more. It turns denial into acceptance  chaos to order  confusion to clarity. It can turn a meal into a feast  a house into a home  a stranger into a friend. Gratitude makes sense of our past  brings peace for today  and creates a vision for tomorrow.
Remember that not to be happy is not to be grateful.
Gratitude weighs heavy on us only when we no longer feel it.
Appreciation is yeast  lifting ordinary to extraordinary.
Gratitude is the memory of the heart.
One can never pay in gratitude  one can only pay "in kind" somewhere else in life.
Silent gratitude isn't much use to anyone.
Happiness is itself a kind of gratitude.
One cannot collect all the beautiful shells on the beach.
A man who accustoms himself to buy superfluities is often in want of necessities.
What is the proper limit for wealth? It is  first  to have what is necessary  and  second  to have what is enough.
He has enough who is contented with little.
There is a great difference between satisfaction and satiation.
More than enough is too much.
It's a grand thing to be able to take your money in your hand and to think no more of it when it slips away from you than you would a trout that would slip back into the stream.
Let him who has enough wish for nothing more.
Nothing is enough to the man for whom enough is too little.
Sufficiency's enough for men of sense.
You never know what is enough unless you know what is more than enough.
Enough is as good as a feast.
There is satiety in all things  in sleep  and love-making  in the loveliness of singing and the innocent dance.
The average man is rich enough when he has a little more than he has got.
A wise man will desire no more than what he may get justly  use soberly  distribute cheerfully  and leave con-tently.
Money and time are the heaviest burdens of life  and the unhappiest of all mortals are those who have more of either than they know how to use.
Whoever is not in his coffin and the dark grave  let him know he has enough.
Too much is unwholesome.
This only grant me  that my means may lie too low for envy  for contempt too high.
Moderation is the key to lasting enjoyment.
Nothing in excess.
Ask the gods nothing excessive.
Avarice is as destitute of what it has as poverty is of what it has not.
Philosophy ... should not pretend to increase our present stock  but make us economists of what we are possessed of.
The use we make of our fortune determines as to its sufficiency. A little is enough if used wisely  and too much is not enough if expended foolishly.
It is possible to own too much. A man with one watch knows what time it is  a man with two watches is never quite sure.
Happiness is a way station between too much and too little.
To be able to dispense with good things is tantamount to possessing them.
We don't need to increase our goods nearly as much as we need to scale down our wants. Not wanting something is as good as possessing it.
The hardest thing is to take less when you can get more.
Whoever does not regard what he has as most ample wealth is unhappy  though he is master of the world.
I have learned to seek my happiness by limiting my desires  rather than in attempting to satisfy them.
How few are our real wants  and how easy is it to satisfy them! Our imaginary ones are boundless and insatiable.
Of all the people in the world  those who want the most are those who have the most.
Who covets more is evermore a slave.
If you desire many things  many things will seem but a few.
The heart is great which shows moderation in the midst of prosperity.
Want is a growing giant whom the coat of Have was never large enough to cover.
Freedom is not procured by a full enjoyment of what is desired  but by controlling the desire.
How many things there are which I do not want.
Moderate desires constitute a character fitted to acquire all the good which the world can yield. He who has this character is prepared  in whatever situation he is  therewith to be content and has learned the science of being happy.
Were a man to order his life by the rules of true reason  a frugal substance joined to a contented mind is for him great riches.
One is never fortunate or as unfortunate as one imagines.
Man needs so little ... yet he begins wanting so much.
Man never has what he wants  because what he wants is everything.
If your desires be endless  your cares and fears will be so  too.
We are no longer happy so soon as we wish to be happier.
He is not rich that possesses much  but he that covets no more  and he is not poor that enjoys little  but he that wants too much.
Independence may be found in comparative as well as in absolute abundance  I mean where a person contracts his desires within the limits of his fortune.
One never hugs one's good luck so affectionately as when listening to the relation of some horrible misfortunes which has overtaken others.
If you would but exchange places with the other fellow  how much more you could appreciate your own position.
We should learn  by reflection on the misfortunes of others  that there is nothing singular in those which befall ourselves.
Double-no  triple-our troubles and we'd still be better off than any other people on earth.
I wept because I had no shoes  until I saw a man who had no feet.
When life's problems seem overwhelming  look around and see what other people are coping with. You may consider yourself fortunate.
If all misfortunes were laid in one common heap whence everyone must take an equal portion  most people would be contented to take their own and depart.
Not he who has little  but he who wishes more  is poor.
The covetous man is always poor.
He is not poor that hath not much  but he that craves much.
He is poor who does not feel content.
I have no riches but my thoughts. Yet these are wealth enough for me.
He who curbs his desires will always be rich enough.
There is a gigantic difference between earning a great deal of money and being rich.
That man is richest whose pleasures are the cheapest.
If you want an accounting of your worth  count your friends.
I've had an exciting life  I married for love and got a little money along with it.
True affluence is not needing anything.
There are many excuses for the person who made the mistake of confounding money and wealth. Like many others they mistook the sign for the thing signified.
Friends are the thermometer by which we may judge the temperature of our fortunes.
To be satisfied with what one has  that is wealth. As long as one sorely needs a certain additional amount  that man isn't rich.
I have the greatest of all riches: that of not desiring them.
My friends are my estate.
A man is rich in proportion to the things he can afford to let alone.
There are people who have money and people who are rich.
He is rich that is satisfied.
Nor need we power or splendor  wide hall or lordly dome  the good  the true  the tender-these form the wealth of home.
He is well paid that is well satisfied.
He who is content in his poverty is wonderfully rich.
He who is contented is rich.
A BMW can't take you as far as a diploma.
All fortune belongs to him who has a contented mind.
The greatest wealth is contentment with a little.
No one has yet had the courage to memorialize his wealth on his tombstone. A dollar mark would not look well there.
So many of us define ourselves by what we have  what we wear  what kind of house we live in  and what kind of car we drive ... if you think of yourself as the woman in the Cartier watch and the Hermes scarf  a house fire will destroy not only your possessions but your self.
The externals are simply so many props  everything we need is within us.
He is not rich that possesses much  but he that is content with what he has.
One well-cultivated talent  deepened and enlarged  is worth one hundred shallow faculties.
If only every man would make proper use of his strength and do his utmost  he need never regret his limited ability.
Anyone is to be pitied who has just sense enough to perceive his deficiencies.
What strange perversity is it that induces a man to set his heart on doing those things which he has not succeeded in  and makes him slight those in which his achievement has been respectable.
I may not amount to much  but at least I am unique.
Happy is the man who can do only one thing: in doing it  he fulfills his destiny.
The real tragedy of life is not being limited to one talent  but in failing to use that one talent.
Too many people overvalue what they are not and undervalue what they are.
Nothing will content him who is not content with a little.
Contentment is worth more than riches.
I figure if I have my health  can pay the rent and I have my friends  I call it "content."
Be content with what thou hast received  and smooth thy frowning forehead.
He is poor who does not feel content.
If thou covetest riches  ask not but for contentment  which is an immense treasure.
Who is content with nothing possesses all things.
My crown is called content  a crown that seldom kings enjoy.
It is right to be contented with what we have  never with what we are.
Be content with your lot  one cannot be first in everything.
Content may dwell in all stations. To be low  but above contempt  may be high enough to be happy.
He is not rich that possesses much  but he that is content with what he has.
True contentment... is the power of getting out of any situation all that there is in it. It is arduous  and it is rare.
Poor and content is rich  and rich enough.
The greatest wealth is contentment with a little.
And be content with such things as ye have.
Everything has its wonders  even darkness and silence  and I learn  whatever state I may be in  therein to be content.
Try to live the life of the good man who is more than content with what is allocated to him.
The world is full of people looking for spectacular happiness while they snub contentment.
We are never content with our lot.
Until you make peace with who you are  you'll never be content with what you have.
True contentment depends not upon what we have  a tub was large enough for Diogenes  but a world was too little for Alexander.
To be content with little is difficult  to be content with much  impossible.
Reflect upon your present blessings  of which every man has many  not on your past misfortunes  of which all men have some.
No longer forward nor behind I look in hope or fear  But  grateful  take the good I find  The best of now and here.
What a wonderful life I've had! I only wish I'd realized it sooner.
Was it always my nature to take a bad time and block out the good times  until any success became an accident and failure seemed the only truth?
Most human beings have an almost infinite capacity for taking things for granted.
There are men who are happy without knowing it.
We are all of us richer than we think we are.
What a miserable thing life is: you're living in clover  only the clover isn't good enough.
I am convinced  the longer I live  that life and its blessings are not so entirely unjustly distributed as when we are suffering greatly we are inclined to suppose.
Life is hard. Next to what?
Over a period of time it's been driven home to me that I'm not going to be the most popular writer in the world  so I'm always happy when anything in any way is accepted.
It made me gladsome to be getting some education  it being like a big window opening.
Too much of a good thing can be wonderful.
A man with ambition and love for his blessings here on earth is ever so alive. Having been alive  it won't be so hard in the end to lie down and rest.
In the country of the blind  the one-eyed man is king.
Be satisfied  and pleased with what thou art  Act cheerfully and well thou allotted part  Enjoy the present hour  be thankful for the past  And neither fear  nor wish  the approaches of the last.
No one is satisfied with his fortune  or dissatisfied with his intellect.
Tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.
God pardons like a mother  who kisses the offense into everlasting forgetfulness.
Good  to forgive  Best  to forget.
It is easier to forgive an enemy than a friend.
His heart was as great as the world  but there was no room in it to hold the memory of a wrong.
Bear and forbear.
Forgive us our trespasses  as we forgive them that trespass against us.
To err is human  to forgive  divine.
Forgive others often  yourself never.
It is manlike to punish but godlike to forgive.
Fortune makes him fool  whom she makes her darling.
It is fortune  not wisdom  that rules man's life.
Fortune truly helps those who are of good judgment.
The bitter dregs of Fortune's cup to drain.
Fortunes made in no time are like shirts made in no time  it's ten to one if they hang long together.
Men are seldom blessed with good fortune and good sense at the same time.
Fortune and Love befriend the bold.
Every man is the architect of his own fortune.
O fortune  fortune! all men call thee fickle.
There is a tide in the affairs of men Which  taken at the flood  leads on to fortune.
A sleeping fox counts hens in his dreams.
Frailty  thy name is woman!
An amiable weakness.
Forty million Frenchmen can't be wrong.
France  freed from that monster  Bonaparte  must again become the most agreeable country on earth. It would be the second choice of all whose ties of family and fortune give a preference to some other one  and the first choice of all not under those ties.
Ye sons of France  awake to glory! Hark! Hark! what myriads bid you rise! Your children  wives and grandsires hoary  Behold their tears and hear their cries!
France always has plenty men of talent  but it is always deficient in men of action and high character.
The cause of freedom is the cause of God.
Life is not so short but that there is always time enough for courtesy.
A decent boldness ever meets with friends.
It is not enough to succeed  a friend must fail.
A friend in power is a friend lost.
A friend is one before whom I may think aloud.
Iron sharpeneth man  so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend.
Chance makes our parents  but choice makes our friends.
Hope is a pleasant acquaintance  but an unsafe friend.
Money can't buy friends  but you can get a better class of enemy.
Every time I paint a portrait I lose a friend.
My heart is warm with the friends I make  And better friends I'll not be knowing  Yet there isn't a train I wouldn't take  No matter where it's going.
A sympathetic friend can be quite dear as a brother.
Friends are relatives you make for yourself.
A good friend is my nearest relation.
The rich know not who is his friend.
The richer your friends  the more they will cost you.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
It is easier to forgive an enemy than a friend.
Man's best support is a very dear friend.
If you want an accounting of your worth  count your friends.
A true friend is the best possession.
Best friend  my well-spring in the wilderness!
The only way to have a friend is to be one.
A friend should be a master at guessing and keeping still.
I have lost friends  some by death ... others by sheer inability to cross the street.
Faithful are the wounds of a friend  but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.
An old friend never can be found  and nature has provided that he cannot easily be lost.
One who's our friend is fond of us  one who's fond of us isn't necessarily our friend.
True friends ... face in the same direction  toward common projects  interests  goals.
Friends are a second existence.
My helpless friend  your helplessness is the most powerful plea which rises up to the tender father-heart of God. You think that everything is closed to you because you cannot pray. My friend  your helplessness is the very essence of prayer.
A decent boldness ever meets with friends.
It is not enough to succeed  a friend must fail.
A friend in power is a friend lost.
A friend is one before whom I may think aloud.
Iron sharpeneth man  so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend.
Chance makes our parents  but choice makes our friends.
Hope is a pleasant acquaintance  but an unsafe friend.
Money can't buy friends  but you can get a better class of enemy.
Every time I paint a portrait I lose a friend.
My heart is warm with the friends I make  And better friends I'll not be knowing  Yet there isn't a train I wouldn't take  No matter where it's going.
A sympathetic friend can be quite dear as a brother.
Friends are relatives you make for yourself.
A good friend is my nearest relation.
The rich know not who is his friend.
The richer your friends  the more they will cost you.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
It is easier to forgive an enemy than a friend.
Man's best support is a very dear friend.
If you want an accounting of your worth  count your friends.
A true friend is the best possession.
Best friend  my well-spring in the wilderness!
The only way to have a friend is to be one.
A friend should be a master at guessing and keeping still.
I have lost friends  some by death ... others by sheer inability to cross the street.
Faithful are the wounds of a friend  but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.
An old friend never can be found  and nature has provided that he cannot easily be lost.
One who's our friend is fond of us  one who's fond of us isn't necessarily our friend.
True friends ... face in the same direction  toward common projects  interests  goals.
Friends are a second existence.
My helpless friend  your helplessness is the most powerful plea which rises up to the tender father-heart of God. You think that everything is closed to you because you cannot pray. My friend  your helplessness is the very essence of prayer.
A decent boldness ever meets with friends.
It is not enough to succeed  a friend must fail.
A friend in power is a friend lost.
A friend is one before whom I may think aloud.
Iron sharpeneth man  so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend.
Chance makes our parents  but choice makes our friends.
Hope is a pleasant acquaintance  but an unsafe friend.
Money can't buy friends  but you can get a better class of enemy.
Every time I paint a portrait I lose a friend.
My heart is warm with the friends I make  And better friends I'll not be knowing  Yet there isn't a train I wouldn't take  No matter where it's going.
A sympathetic friend can be quite dear as a brother.
Friends are relatives you make for yourself.
A good friend is my nearest relation.
The rich know not who is his friend.
The richer your friends  the more they will cost you.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
It is easier to forgive an enemy than a friend.
Man's best support is a very dear friend.
If you want an accounting of your worth  count your friends.
A true friend is the best possession.
Best friend  my well-spring in the wilderness!
The only way to have a friend is to be one.
A friend should be a master at guessing and keeping still.
I have lost friends  some by death ... others by sheer inability to cross the street.
Faithful are the wounds of a friend  but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.
An old friend never can be found  and nature has provided that he cannot easily be lost.
One who's our friend is fond of us  one who's fond of us isn't necessarily our friend.
True friends ... face in the same direction  toward common projects  interests  goals.
Friends are a second existence.
My helpless friend  your helplessness is the most powerful plea which rises up to the tender father-heart of God. You think that everything is closed to you because you cannot pray. My friend  your helplessness is the very essence of prayer.
A decent boldness ever meets with friends.
It is not enough to succeed  a friend must fail.
A friend in power is a friend lost.
A friend is one before whom I may think aloud.
Iron sharpeneth man  so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend.
Chance makes our parents  but choice makes our friends.
Hope is a pleasant acquaintance  but an unsafe friend.
Money can't buy friends  but you can get a better class of enemy.
Every time I paint a portrait I lose a friend.
My heart is warm with the friends I make  And better friends I'll not be knowing  Yet there isn't a train I wouldn't take  No matter where it's going.
A sympathetic friend can be quite dear as a brother.
Friends are relatives you make for yourself.
A good friend is my nearest relation.
The rich know not who is his friend.
The richer your friends  the more they will cost you.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
It is easier to forgive an enemy than a friend.
Man's best support is a very dear friend.
If you want an accounting of your worth  count your friends.
A true friend is the best possession.
Best friend  my well-spring in the wilderness!
The only way to have a friend is to be one.
A friend should be a master at guessing and keeping still.
I have lost friends  some by death ... others by sheer inability to cross the street.
Faithful are the wounds of a friend  but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.
An old friend never can be found  and nature has provided that he cannot easily be lost.
One who's our friend is fond of us  one who's fond of us isn't necessarily our friend.
True friends ... face in the same direction  toward common projects  interests  goals.
Friends are a second existence.
My helpless friend  your helplessness is the most powerful plea which rises up to the tender father-heart of God. You think that everything is closed to you because you cannot pray. My friend  your helplessness is the very essence of prayer.
A decent boldness ever meets with friends.
It is not enough to succeed  a friend must fail.
A friend in power is a friend lost.
A friend is one before whom I may think aloud.
Iron sharpeneth man  so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend.
Chance makes our parents  but choice makes our friends.
Hope is a pleasant acquaintance  but an unsafe friend.
Money can't buy friends  but you can get a better class of enemy.
Every time I paint a portrait I lose a friend.
My heart is warm with the friends I make  And better friends I'll not be knowing  Yet there isn't a train I wouldn't take  No matter where it's going.
A sympathetic friend can be quite dear as a brother.
Friends are relatives you make for yourself.
A good friend is my nearest relation.
The rich know not who is his friend.
The richer your friends  the more they will cost you.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
It is easier to forgive an enemy than a friend.
Man's best support is a very dear friend.
If you want an accounting of your worth  count your friends.
A true friend is the best possession.
Best friend  my well-spring in the wilderness!
The only way to have a friend is to be one.
A friend should be a master at guessing and keeping still.
I have lost friends  some by death ... others by sheer inability to cross the street.
Faithful are the wounds of a friend  but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.
An old friend never can be found  and nature has provided that he cannot easily be lost.
One who's our friend is fond of us  one who's fond of us isn't necessarily our friend.
True friends ... face in the same direction  toward common projects  interests  goals.
Friends are a second existence.
My helpless friend  your helplessness is the most powerful plea which rises up to the tender father-heart of God. You think that everything is closed to you because you cannot pray. My friend  your helplessness is the very essence of prayer.
A decent boldness ever meets with friends.
It is not enough to succeed  a friend must fail.
A friend in power is a friend lost.
A friend is one before whom I may think aloud.
Iron sharpeneth man  so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend.
Chance makes our parents  but choice makes our friends.
Hope is a pleasant acquaintance  but an unsafe friend.
Money can't buy friends  but you can get a better class of enemy.
Every time I paint a portrait I lose a friend.
My heart is warm with the friends I make  And better friends I'll not be knowing  Yet there isn't a train I wouldn't take  No matter where it's going.
A sympathetic friend can be quite dear as a brother.
Friends are relatives you make for yourself.
A good friend is my nearest relation.
The rich know not who is his friend.
The richer your friends  the more they will cost you.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
It is easier to forgive an enemy than a friend.
Man's best support is a very dear friend.
If you want an accounting of your worth  count your friends.
A true friend is the best possession.
Best friend  my well-spring in the wilderness!
The only way to have a friend is to be one.
A friend should be a master at guessing and keeping still.
I have lost friends  some by death ... others by sheer inability to cross the street.
Faithful are the wounds of a friend  but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.
An old friend never can be found  and nature has provided that he cannot easily be lost.
One who's our friend is fond of us  one who's fond of us isn't necessarily our friend.
True friends ... face in the same direction  toward common projects  interests  goals.
Friends are a second existence.
My helpless friend  your helplessness is the most powerful plea which rises up to the tender father-heart of God. You think that everything is closed to you because you cannot pray. My friend  your helplessness is the very essence of prayer.
A decent boldness ever meets with friends.
It is not enough to succeed  a friend must fail.
A friend in power is a friend lost.
A friend is one before whom I may think aloud.
Iron sharpeneth man  so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend.
Chance makes our parents  but choice makes our friends.
Hope is a pleasant acquaintance  but an unsafe friend.
Money can't buy friends  but you can get a better class of enemy.
Every time I paint a portrait I lose a friend.
My heart is warm with the friends I make  And better friends I'll not be knowing  Yet there isn't a train I wouldn't take  No matter where it's going.
A sympathetic friend can be quite dear as a brother.
Friends are relatives you make for yourself.
A good friend is my nearest relation.
The rich know not who is his friend.
The richer your friends  the more they will cost you.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
It is easier to forgive an enemy than a friend.
Man's best support is a very dear friend.
If you want an accounting of your worth  count your friends.
A true friend is the best possession.
Best friend  my well-spring in the wilderness!
The only way to have a friend is to be one.
A friend should be a master at guessing and keeping still.
I have lost friends  some by death ... others by sheer inability to cross the street.
Faithful are the wounds of a friend  but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.
An old friend never can be found  and nature has provided that he cannot easily be lost.
One who's our friend is fond of us  one who's fond of us isn't necessarily our friend.
True friends ... face in the same direction  toward common projects  interests  goals.
Friends are a second existence.
My helpless friend  your helplessness is the most powerful plea which rises up to the tender father-heart of God. You think that everything is closed to you because you cannot pray. My friend  your helplessness is the very essence of prayer.
A decent boldness ever meets with friends.
It is not enough to succeed  a friend must fail.
A friend in power is a friend lost.
A friend is one before whom I may think aloud.
Iron sharpeneth man  so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend.
Chance makes our parents  but choice makes our friends.
Hope is a pleasant acquaintance  but an unsafe friend.
Money can't buy friends  but you can get a better class of enemy.
Every time I paint a portrait I lose a friend.
My heart is warm with the friends I make  And better friends I'll not be knowing  Yet there isn't a train I wouldn't take  No matter where it's going.
A sympathetic friend can be quite dear as a brother.
Friends are relatives you make for yourself.
A good friend is my nearest relation.
The rich know not who is his friend.
The richer your friends  the more they will cost you.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
It is easier to forgive an enemy than a friend.
Man's best support is a very dear friend.
If you want an accounting of your worth  count your friends.
A true friend is the best possession.
Best friend  my well-spring in the wilderness!
The only way to have a friend is to be one.
A friend should be a master at guessing and keeping still.
I have lost friends  some by death ... others by sheer inability to cross the street.
Faithful are the wounds of a friend  but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.
An old friend never can be found  and nature has provided that he cannot easily be lost.
One who's our friend is fond of us  one who's fond of us isn't necessarily our friend.
True friends ... face in the same direction  toward common projects  interests  goals.
Friends are a second existence.
My helpless friend  your helplessness is the most powerful plea which rises up to the tender father-heart of God. You think that everything is closed to you because you cannot pray. My friend  your helplessness is the very essence of prayer.
I figure if I have my health  can pay the rent and I have my friends  I call it "content."
You leave home to seek your fortune and  when you get it  you go home and share it with your family.
If you have a good name  if you are right more often than you are wrong  if your children respect you  if your grandchildren are glad to see you  if your friends can count on you and you can count on them in time of trouble  if you can face your God and say "I have done my best " then you are a success.
Is there any stab as deep as wondering where and how much you failed those you loved?
My darling little girl-child  after such a long and troublesome waiting I now have you in my arms. I am alone no more  I have my baby.
A sympathetic friend can be quite dear as a brother.
There's a time when you have to explain to your children why they were born  and it's a marvelous thing if you know the reason by then.
Disorder in the society is the result of disorder in the family.
To nourish children and raise them against odds is in any time  any place  more valuable than to fix bolts in cars or design nuclear weapons.
I believe that we are always attracted to what we need most  an instinct leading us towards the persons who are to open new vistas in our lives and fill them with new knowledge.
If you bungle raising your children  I don't think whatever else you do matters very much.
Friends are relatives you make for yourself.
The darn trouble with cleaning the house is it gets dirty the next day anyway  so skip a week if you have to. The children are the most important thing.
The presidency is temporary-but the family is permanent.
Chance makes our parents  but choice makes our friends.
God gave us our relatives  thank God we can choose our friends.
A good friend is my nearest relation.
It seems to me that since I've had children  I've grown richer and deeper. They may have slowed down my writing for a while  but when I did write  I had more of a self to speak from.
All love that has not friendship for its base is like a mansion built upon the sand.
One loyal friend is worth ten thousand relatives.
Biology is the least of what makes someone a mother.
A hedge between keeps friendship green.
A man  Sir  should keep his friendship in constant repair.
Be a friend to thyself  and others will be so too.
Friendship admits of differences of character  as love does that of sex.
Friendship is love minus sex and plus reason. Love is friendship plus sex and minus reason.
It is one of the blessings of old friends that you can afford to be stupid with them.
You shall judge of a man by his foes as well as by his friends.
There are formalities between the closest of friends.
If you press me to say why I loved him  I can say no more than it was because he was he  and I was 1.
Of my friends I am the only one I have left.
Anybody amuses me for once. A new acquaintance is like a new book. I prefer it  even if bad  to a classic.
My God  this is a hell of a job. I have no trouble with my enemies. I can take care of my enemies all right. But my damn friends  my goddamn friends. They're the ones that keep me walking the floor nights.
There are three faithful friends: an old wife  an old dog  and ready money.
He makes no friend who never made a foe.
Give me the avowed  the erect  and manly foe  Bold I can meet  perhaps may turn the blow  But of all plagues  good Heaven  thy wrath can send  Save  save  oh save me from the candid friend!
It is not enough to succeed  a friend must fail.
A friend in power is a friend lost.
Do not rely completely on any other human being  however dear. We meet all life's greatest tests alone.
You cannot be friends upon any other terms than upon the terms of equality.
How often we find ourselves turning our backs on our actual friends  that we may go and meet their ideal cousins.
We make our friends  we make our enemies  but God makes our next-door neighbour.
You never know till you try to reach them how accessible men are  but you must approach each man by the right door.
A friend is one before whom I may think aloud.
Without friends no one would choose to live  though he had all other goods.
The more we love our friends  the less we flatter them  it is by excusing nothing that pure love shows itself.
It's important to our friends to believe that we are unreservedly frank with them  and important to friendship that we are not.
In life it is difficult to say who do you the most mischief  enemies with the worst intentions  or friends with the best.
It is better to be deceived by one's friends than to deceive them.
We need new friends. Some of us are cannibals who have eaten their old friends up  others must have ever-renewed audiences before whom to re-enact an ideal version of their lives.
Friendship needs a certain parallelism of life  a community of thought  a rivalry of aim.
When my friends lack an eye  I look at them in profile.
As in political  so in literary action  a man wins friends for himself mostly by the passion of his prejudices.
God save me from my friends - I can protect myself from my enemies.
Never exaggerate your faults  your friends will attend to that.
Don't tell your friends their social faults  they will cure the fault and never forgive you.
Iron sharpeneth man  so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend.
Love demands infinitely less than friendship.
Friendship is almost always the union of a part of one mind with a part of another  people are friends in spots.
Who friendship with a knave hath made  Is judged a partner in the trade.
Chance makes our parents  but choice makes our friends.
If we were all given by magic the power to read each other's thoughts  I suppose the first effect would be to dissolve all friendships.
There is a magnet in your heart that will attract true friends. That magnet is unselfishness  thinking of others first . . . when you learn to live for others  they will live for you.
Never join with your friend when he abuses his horse or his wife unless the one is to be sold  and the other to be buried.
The richest man in the world is not the one who still has the first dollar he ever earned. It's the man who still has his best friend.
It is better not to say "lend." There is only giving.
They are rich who have true friends.
Friendship is like money  easier made than kept.
The rich know not who is his friend.
Prosperity makes few friends.
It is a good thing to be rich  it is a good thing to be strong  but it is a better thing to be beloved of many friends.
Better the friend we can see than the money we cannot.
Never have a friend that's poorer than yourself.
It is better in times of need to have a friend rather than money.
The richer your friends  the more they will cost you.
Wealth maketh many friends.
The friend who holds your hand and says the wrong thing is made of dearer stuff than the one who stays away.
A friend is one who knows you and loves you just the same.
The best mirror is an old friend.
All you'll get from strangers is surface pleasantry or indifference. Only someone who loves you will criticize you.
Friendship is the perfection of love  and superior to love  it is love purified  exalted  proved by experience and a consent of minds. Love  Madam  may  and love does  often stop short of friendship.
With true friends . . . even water drunk together is sweet enough.
Greater love has no man than this  that a man lay down his life for his friends.
If there ever comes a day when we can't be together  keep me in your heart  I'll stay there forever.
Can miles truly separate you from friends. ... If you want to be with someone you love  aren't you already there?
Friendship is certainly the finest balm for the pangs of disappointed love.
Sympathy constitutes friendship  but in love there is a sort of antipathy  or opposing passion. Each strives to be the other  and both together make up one whole.
There's nothing worth the wear of winning but laughter  and the love of friends.
Friendship marks a life even more deeply rhan love. Love risks degenerating into obsession  friendship is never anything but sharing.
All love that has not friendship for its base  is like a mansion built upon the sand.
Platonic Love is a fool's name for the affection between a disability and a frost.
Platonic love is love from the neck up.
Friendship is love minus sex and plus reason. Love is friendship plus sex and minus reason.
Love is blind  friendship closes its eyes.
Friendship is Love without his wings!
Friendship is a serious affection  the most sublime of all affections  because it is founded on principle  and cemented by time. The very reverse may be said of love. In a great degree  love and friendship cannot subsist in the same bosom  even when inspired by different objects they weaken or destroy each other  and for the same object can only be felt in succession. The vain fears and fond jealousies  the winds which fan the flame of love  when judiciously or artfully tempered  are both incompatible with the tender confidence and sincere respect of friendship.
Accountability in friendship is the equivalent of love without strategy.
Between men and women there is no friendship possible. There is passion  enmity  worship  love  but no friendship.
What men call friendship is no more than a partnership  a mutual care of interests  an exchange of favors - in a word  it is a sort of traffic  in which self-love ever proposes to be the gainer.
The more we love our friends  the less we flatter them  it is by excusing nothing that pure love shows itself.
So long as we love we serve  so long as we are loved by others  I would almost say that we are indispensable  and no man is useless while he has a friend.
Friendship often ends in love  but love in friendship - never.
When we hurt each other we should write it down in the sand  so the winds of forgiveness can make it go away for good. When we help each other we should chisel it in stone  lest we never forget the love of a friend.
Winning has always meant much to me  but winning ftiends has meant the most.
Friends show their love - in times of trouble  not in happiness.
Life is to be fortified by many friendships. To love and to be loved is the greatest happiness of existence.
Prosperity makes friends and adversity tries tliem.
A friend is one who dislikes the same people that you dislike.
A true friend is one soul in two bodies.
Chance makes our parents  but choice makes our friends.
The best way to keep your friends is to never owe them anything and never lend them anything.
Forsake not an old friend  for the new is not comparable unto him. A new friend is as new wine: when it is old thou shalt drink it with pleasure.
The only way to have a friend is to be one.
Animals are such agreeable friends - they ask no questions  they pass no criticisms.
If you have a friend worth loving  Love him. Yes  and let him know That you love him  ere life's evening Tinge his brow with sunset glow. Why should good words ne'er be said Of a friend till he is dead?
I desire so to conduct the affairs of this administration that if at the end  when I come to lay down the reins of Ewer  I have lost every other friend on earth  I shall at st have one friend left  and that friend shall be down inside of me.
Friends are like melons. Shall I tell you why? To find one good  you must a hundred try.
A man that hath friends must show himself friendly  and there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
There are three faithful friends: an old wife  an old dog  and ready money.
I am wealthy in my friends.
A friend must not be injured  even in jest.
Reprove your friends in secret  praise them openly.
God same me from my friends  I can protect myself from my enemies.
It's the friends you can call up at 4 a.m. that matter.
True friendship is never serene.
In time of great anxiety we can draw power from our friends. We should at such times  however  avoid friends who sympathize too deeply  who give us pity rather than strength.
The firmest friendships have been formed in mutual adversity  as iron is most strongly united by the fiercest flame.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
Adversity not only draws people together  but brings forth that beautiful inward friendship.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
In times of difficulty friendship is on trial.
A friend is never known till a man has need.
As the yellow gold is tried in fire  so the faith of friendship must be seen in adversity.
Friendship  of itself a holy tie  is made more sacred by adversity.
He who endures penance and hardships for another delights in that person's company.
A cheer  then  for the noble breast that fears not danger's post  And like the lifeboat  proves a friend  When friends are wanted most.
There are moments in life when all that we can bear is the sense that our friend is near us  our wounds would wince at consoling words that would reveal the depths of our pain.
Prosperity makes friends  adversity tries them.
That's the risk you take if you change: that people you've been involved with won't like the new you. But other people who do will come along.
Friendship has splendors that love knows not. It grows stronger when crossed  whereas obstacles kill love. Friendship resists time  which wearies and severs couples. It has heights unknown to love.
True friends are those who really know you but love you anyway.
Grief can take care of itself  but to get the full value of a joy you must have somebody to divide it with.
There is nothing better than the encouragement of a good friend.
A friend is someone you can be alone with and have nothing to do and not be able to think of anything to say and be comfortable in the silence.
It's the friends you can call up at 4:00 a.m. that matter.
Perhaps the most delightful friendships are those in which there is much agreement  much disputation  and yet more personal liking.
Prosperity is not just scale  adversity is the only balance to weigh friends.
And we find at the end of a perfect day  The soul of a friend we've made.
Love is like the wild-rose briar  Friendship is like the holly-tree. The holly is dark when the rose briar blooms  But which will bloom most constantly?
Life without a friend is death without a witness.
Without friends no one would choose to live  though he had all other goods.
We call that person who has lost his father  an orphan  and a widower  that man who has lost his wife. But that man who has known that immense unhappiness of losing a friend  by what name do we call him? Here every language holds its peace in impotence.
The great difference between voyages rests not in ships but in the people you meet on them.
Only solitary men know the full joys of friendship. Others have their family  but to a solitary and an exile his friends are everything.
It seems to me that trying to live without friends is like milking a bear to get cream for your morning coffee. It is a whole lot of trouble  and then not worth much after you get it.
Friendship is the bread of the heart.
There is no hope or joy except in human relations.
I feel the need of relations and friendship  of affection  of friendly intercourse. ... I cannot miss these things without feeling  as does any other intelligent man  a void and a deep need.
Your wealth is where your friends are.
Today a man discovered gold and fame  Another flew the stormy seas  Another set an unarmed world aflame  One found the germ of a disease. But what high fates my path attend for I-today-I found a friend.
Though Love be deeper  Friendship is more wide.
That is the best-to laugh with someone because you think the same things are funny.
Can you understand how cruelly I feel the lack of friends who will believe in me a bit?
To have a good friend is one of the highest delights of life  to be a good friend is one of the noblest and most difficult undertakings.
The two most important things in life are good friends and a strong bull pen.
There is no wilderness like a life without friends  friendship multiplies blessings and minimizes misfortunes  it is a unique remedy against adversity  and it soothes the soul.
There is nothing on this earth more to be prized than true friendship.
Man's best support is a very dear friend.
A cheer  then  for the noblest breast That fears not danger's post  And like the lifeboat  proves a friend  When friends are wanted most.
I know what things are good: friendship and work and conversation.
Friendship is the source of the greatest pleasures  and without friends even the most agreeable pursuits become tedious.
No medicine is more valuable  none more efficacious  none better suited to the cure of all our temporal ills than a friend to whom we may turn for consolation in time of trouble  and with whom we may share our happiness in time of joy.
My only sketch  profile  of heaven is a large blue sky  and larger than the biggest I have seen in June-and in it are my friends-every one of them.
If I don't have friends  then I ain't nothing.
Brotherhood is the very price and condition of man's survival.
One thing everybody in the world wants and needs is friendliness.
A man cannot be said to succeed in this life who does not satisfy one friend.
We take care of our health  we lay up money  we make our roof tight and our clothing sufficient  but who provides wisely that he shall not be wanting in the best property of all-friends.
There is no physician like a true friend.
There is nothing meritorious but virtue and friendship.
The bird  a nest  the spider  a web  man  friendship.
True happiness ... arises  in the first place  from the enjoyment of one's self  and in the next from the friendship and conversation of a few select companions.
It was such a joy to see thee. I wish I could tell how much thee is to my life. I always turn to thee as a sort of rest.
Today a man discovered gold and fame  Another flew the stormy seas  Another set an unarmed world aflame  One found the germ of a disease. But what high fates my path attend: For I-today-I found a friend.
Good friends  good books and a sleepy conscience: this is the ideal life.
Man is a knot  a web  a mesh into which relationships are tied. Only those relationships matter.
Friendship is the only cement that will ever hold the world together.
Friends are an aid to the young  to guard them from error  to the elderly  to attend to their wants and to supplement their failing power of action  to those in the prime of life  to assist them to noble deeds.
Friendship is the allay of our sorrows  the ease of our passions  the discharge of our oppression  the sanctuary of our calamities  the counselor of our doubts  the clarity of our minds  the emission of our thoughts  the exercise and improvement of what we dedicate.
Of all the things which wisdom provides to make life entirely happy  much the greatest is the possession of friendship.
There's nothing worth the wear of winning but laughter  and the love of friends.
Each friend represents a world in us  a world possibly not born until they arrive  and it is only by this meeting that a new world is born.
The feeling of friendship is like that of being comfortably filled with roast beef  love  like being enlivened with champagne.
One is taught by experience to put a premium on those few people who can appreciate you for what you are.
Oh Dear! How unfortunate I am not to have anyone to weep with!
The worst solitude is to be destitute of sincere friendship.
If you want an accounting of your worth  count your friends.
A man with few friends is only half-developed  there are whole sides of his nature which are locked up and have never been expressed. He cannot unlock them himself  he cannot even discover them  friends alone can stimulate him and open him.
Tis the human touch in the world that counts-the touch of your hand and mine-Which means far more to the sinking heart than shelter or bread or wine For shelter is gone when the night is o'er  and bread lasts only a day But the touch of the hand and the sound of the voice Live on in the soul always.
Good company and good discourse are the very sinews of virtue.
Friends are the sunshine of life.
My friends have made the story of my life. In a thousand ways they have turned my limitations into beautiful privileges  and enabled me to walk serene and happy in the shadow cast by my deprivation.
The support of one's personality is friends. A part of one's self and a real foundation and existence.
No greater burden can be born by an individual than to know none who cares or understands.
My life seems to have become suddenly hollow  and I do not know what is hanging over me. I cannot even put the shadow that has fallen on me into words. At least into written words. I would give a great deal for a friend's voice.
A true friend is the best possession.
It is not so much our friends' help that helps us  as the confidence of their help.
Friends Make Life Bearable But I have certainty enough  For I am sure of you.
Best friend  my well-spring in the wilderness!
Plant a seed of friendship  reap a bouquet of happiness.
Our happiness in this world depends on the affections we are able to inspire.
Some people go to priests  others to poetry  I to my friends.
The family. We are a strange little band of characters trudging through life sharing diseases and toothpaste  coveting one another's desserts  hiding shampoo  locking each other out of our rooms  inflicting pain and kissing to heal it in the same instant  loving  laughing  defending  and trying to figure out the common thread that bound us all together.
You hear a lot of dialogue on the death of the American family. Families aren't dying. They're merging into big conglomerates.
If ever two were one  then surely we. If ever man were loved by wife  then thee.
Friends are the family we choose for ourselves.
I think togetherness is a very important ingredient to family life. It's a cliche and we use it too much but I think for a husband and wife  the way to stay close is to do things together and share.
Jimmy and I were always partners.
He [Winston Churchill] has a future and I have a past  so we should be all right.
Parents are friends that life gives us  friends are parents that the heart chooses.
[My father] was generous with his affection  given to great  awkward  engulfing hugs  and I can remember so clearly the smell of his hugs  all starched shirt  tobacco  Old Spice  and Cutty Sark. Sometimes I think I've never been properly hugged since.
Both within the family and without  our sisters hold up our mirrors: our images of who we are and of who we can dare to become.
Sisters define their rivalry in terms of competition for the gold cup of parental love. It is never perceived as a cup which runneth over  rather a finite vessel from which the more one sister drinks  the less is left over for the others.
The desire to be and have a sister is a primitive and profound one that may have everything or nothing to do with the family a woman is born to. It is a desire to know and be known by someone who shares blood and body  history and dreams.
Where there is lasting love  there is a family.
Is solace anywhere more comforting than in the arms of sisters?
Call it a clan  call it a network  call it a tribe  call it a family: Whatever you call it  whoever you are  you need one.
Old as she was  she still missed her daddy sometimes.
[Families] are made to make you forget yourself occasionally  so that the beautiful balance of life is not destroyed.
The family unit plays a critical role in our society and in the training of the generation to come.
Families will not be broken. Curse and expel them  send their children wandering  drown them in floods and fires  and old women will make songs of all these sorrows and sit in the porches and sing them on mild evenings.
The family is the building block for whatever solidarity there is in society.
Who ran to help me when I fell And would some pretty story tell Or kiss the place to make it well? My mother.
All love that has not friendship for its base  Is like a mansion built upon the sand.
One can find traces of every life in each life.
Friendship is an art  and very few persons are born with a natural gift for it.
The art of friendship has been little cultivated in our society.
We flatter those we scarcely know  We please the fleeting guest  And deal full many a thoughtless blow To those who love us best.
Good friendships are fragile things and require as much care as any other fragile and precious thing.
Remember that you are all people and that all people are you.
Human beings are born into this little span of life of which the best thing is its friendships and intimacies ... and yet they leave their friendships and intimacies with no cultivation  to grow as they will by the roadside  expecting them to "keep" by force of mere inertia.
The only way to have a friend is to be one.
Friendships  like marriages  are dependent on avoiding the unforgivable.
Beware of the danger signals that flag problems: silence  secretiveness  or sudden outburst.
To accept a favor from a friend is to confer one.
There is a magnet in your heart that will attract true friends. That magnet is unselfishness  thinking of others first... when you learn to live for others  they will live for you.
Blessed are they who have the gift of making friends  for it is one of God's best gifts. It involves many things  but above all  the power of getting out of one's self  and appreciating whatever is noble and loving in another.
Don't ask of your friends what you yourself can do.
Half the secret of getting along with people is consideration of their values  the other half is tolerance in one's own views.
A true friend unbosoms freely  advises justly  assists readily  adventures boldly  takes all patiently  defends courageously  and continues a friend unchangeably.
Confidence is the foundation of friendship. If we give it  we will receive it.
There is a definite process by which one made people into friends  and it involved talking to them and listening to them for hours at a time.
Actions  not words  are the true criterion of the attachment of friends.
One who knows how to show and to accept kindness will be a friend better than any possession.
Any man will usually get from other men what he is expecting from them. If he is looking for friendship  he will likely receive it. If his attitude is that of indifference  it will beget indifference. And if a man is looking for a fight  he will in all likelihood be accommodated in that.
There is nothing we like to see so much as the gleam of pleasure in a person's eye when he feels that we have sympathized with him  understood him  interested ourself in his welfare. At these moments something fine and spiritual passes between two friends. These moments are the moments worth living.
He does good to himself who does good to his friend.
A sense of duty is useful in work  but offensive in personal relations. People wish to be liked  not endured with patient resignation.
When a friend is in trouble  don't annoy him by asking if there is anything you can do. Think up something appropriate and do it.
Loyalty is what we seek in friendship.
True friendship comes when silence between two people is comfortable.
If two friends ask you to judge a dispute  don't accept  because you will lose one friend  on the other hand  if two strangers come with the same request  accept  because you will gain one friend.
Perhaps the most delightful friendships are those in which there is much agreement  much disputation  and yet more personal liking.
There can be no friendship when there is no freedom. Friendship loves the free air  and will not be fenced up in straight and narrow enclosures.
You will find yourself refreshed by the presence of cheerful people. Why not make earnest effort to confer that pleasure on others?...Half the battle is gained if you never allow yourself to say anything gloomy.
Wear a smile and have friends  wear a scowl and have wrinkles.
Lead the life that will make you kindly and friendly to everyone about you  and you will be surprised what a happy life you will live.
Those who cannot give friendship will rarely receive it  and never hold it.
It is not the services we render them  but the services they render us  that attaches people to us.
We cherish our friends not for their ability to amuse us  but for ours to amuse them.
It is foolish to make experiments upon the constancy of a friend  as upon the chastity of a wife.
Give and take makes good friends.
A quarrel between friends  when made up  adds a new tie to friendship  as ... the callosity formed 'round a broken bone makes it stronger than before.
No real friendship is ever made without an initial clashing which discloses the metal of each to each.
Nothing wounds a friend like a want of confidence.
The first thing to learn in intercourse with others is non-interference with their own peculiar ways of being happy  provided those ways do not assume to interfere with ours.
No man can have society upon his own terms. If he seeks it  he must serve it too.
We cannot tell the precise moment when friendship is formed. As in filling a vessel drop by drop  there is at last a drop which makes it run over. So in a series of kindnesses there is  at last  one which makes the heart run over.
Friendship is a plant which must be often watered.
A friend should bear his friend's infirmities.
No man is much pleased with a companion who does not increase  in some respect  his fondness of himself.
You win the victory when you yield to friends.
The condition which high friendship demands is the ability to do without it.
Women can form a friendship with a man very well  but to preserve it  a slight physical antipathy most probably helps.
Love your friends as if they would some day hate you.
Friendship is a strong and habitual inclination in two persons to promote the good and happiness of one another.
Friendship is the pleasing game of interchanging praise.
The hardest of all is learning to be a well of affection  and not a fountain  to show them that we love them  not when we feel like it  but when they do.
If you want to be listened to  you should put in time listening.
"Stay" is a charming word in a friend's vocabulary.
The only service a friend can really render is to keep up your courage by holding up to you a mirror in which you can see a noble image of yourself.
The way to make a true friend is to be one. Friendship implies loyalty  esteem  cordiality  sympathy  affection  readiness to aid  to help  to stick  to fight for  if need be. ... Radiate friendship and it will return sevenfold.
The most called-upon prerequisite of a friend is an accessible ear.
A loyal friend laughs at your jokes when they're not so good  and sympathizes with your problems when they're not so bad.
Politeness is an inexpensive way of making friends.
The secret of success in society is a certain heartiness and sympathy.
Sometimes we owe a friend to the lucky circumstance that we give him no cause for envy.
Friendship requires great communication.
Friendship requires more time than poor busy men can usually command.
We should behave to our friends as we would wish our friends to behave to us.
You can make more friends in two months by becoming more interested in other people than you can in two years by trying to get people interested in you.
We secure our friends not by accepting favors but by doing them.
Friendship multiplies the good of life and divides the evil. Tis the sole remedy against misfortune  the very ventilation of the soul.
It is easier to visit friends than to live with them.
The loneliness you get by the sea is personal and alive. It doesn't subdue you and make you feel abject. It's stimulating loneliness.
The chain of friendship  however bright  does not stand the attrition of constant close contact.
Fond as we are of our loved ones  there comes at times during their absence an unexplained peace.
Friendship increases in visiting friends  but not in visiting them too often.
Go oft to the house of thy friend  for weeds choke the unused path.
I am quite sure that no friendship yields its true pleasure and nobility of nature without frequent communication  sympathy and service.
I am learning to live close to the lives of my friends without ever seeing them. No miles of any measurement can separate your soul from mine.
The most beautiful discovery true friends make is that they can grow separately without growing apart.
Friends are lost by calling often and calling seldom.
A hedge between keeps friendships green.
Solitude is one thing and loneliness is another.
My friend and I have built a wall Between us thick and wide: The stones of it are laid in scorn And plastered high with pride.
When my friends lack an eye  I look at them in profile.
You can always tell a real friend  when you've made a fool of yourself he doesn't feel you've done a permanent job.
A friend is one who withholds judgment no matter how long you have his unanswered letter.
The best rule of friendship is to keep your heart a little softer than your head.
Who seeks a faultless friend remains friendless.
Unless you bear with the faults of a friend you betray your own.
Probably no man ever had a friend he did not dislike a little  we are all so constituted by nature that no one can possibly entirely approve of us.
Love your friend with his fault.
It is well  when judging a friend  to remember that he is judging you with the same godlike and superior impartiality.
Two persons cannot long be friends if they cannot forgive each other's little failings.
To find a friend one must close one eye. To keep him ... two.
It is easier to forgive an enemy than a friend.
Sooner or later you've heard all your best friends have to say. Then comes the tolerance of real love.
We shall never have friends if we expect to find them without fault.
It is well there is no one without fault  for he would not have a friend in the world. He would seem to belong to a different species.
The essence of true friendship is to make allowance for another's little lapses.
To be social is to be forgiving.
It is more shameful to distrust our friends than to be deceived by them.
It is better to be deceived by one's friends than to deceive them.
The man who trusts other men will make fewer mistakes than he who distrusts them.
It should be part of our private ritual to devote a quarter of an hour every day to the enumeration of the good qualities of our friends. When we are not active we fall back idly upon defects  even of those whom we most love.
Friendship admits of difference of character  as love does that of sex.
Between friends there is no need of justice.
What I cannot love  I overlook.
Treat your fiends as you do your picture  and place them in their best light.
Friendships aren't perfect and yet they are very precious. For me  not expecting perfection all in one place was a great release.
A friend who cannot at a pinch remember a thing or two that never happened is as bad as one who does not know how to forget.
Being considerate of others will take you and your children further in life than any college or professional degree.
Nothing is ever lost by courtesy. It is the cheapest of pleasures  costs nothing  and conveys much. It pleases him who gives and receives and thus  like mercy  is twice blessed.
Truth is a rough  honest  helter-skelter terrier  that none like to see brought into their drawing rooms.
Friendship cannot live with ceremony  nor without civility.
Don't flatter yourself that friendship authorizes you to say disagreeable things to your intimates. The nearer you come into relation with a person  the more necessary do tact and courtesy become.
Friends are like a pleasant park where you wish to go  while you may enjoy the flowers  you may not eat them.
Friendship is honey  but don't eat it all.
Except in cases of necessity  which are rare  leave your friend to learn unpleasant things from his enemies  they are ready enough to tell him.
It's important to our friends to believe that we are unreservedly frank with them  and important to our friendship that we are not.
Don't tell your friends their social faults  they will cure the fault and never forgive you.
There are worse words than cuss words  there are words that hurt.
Nobody likes having salt rubbed into their wounds  even if it is the salt of the earth.
Flattery makes friends  truth enemies.
Before a secret is told  one can often feel the weight of it in the atmosphere.
A cruel story runs on wheels  and every hand oils the wheels as they run.
It is terrible to destroy a person's picture of himself in the interests of truth or some other abstraction.
If we all told what we know of one another  there would not be four friends in the world
We all need somebody to talk to. It would be good if we talked ... not just pitter-patter  but real talk. We shouldn't be so afraid  because most people really like this contact  that you show you are vulnerable makes them free to be vulnerable.
If we were all given by magic the power to read each other's thoughts  I suppose the first effect would be to dissolve all friendships.
The truth that is suppressed by friends is the readiest weapon of the enemy.
So often the truth is told with hate  and lies are told with love.
Give me the avowed  the erect and manly foe  Bold I can meet  perhaps may turn the blow  But of all plagues  good Heaven  thy wrath can send  Save  oh save me from the candid friend!
A good friend can tell you what is the matter with you in a minute. He may not seem such a good friend after telling.
Do not remove a fly from your friend's forehead with a hatchet.
Friendship will not stand the strain of very much good advice for very long.
There is not so good an understanding between any two  but the exposure by the one of a serious fault in the other will produce a misunderstanding in proportion to its heinousness.
A friend should be a master at guessing and keeping still.
A cheerful friend is like a sunny day  which sheds its brightness on all around.
The more we love our friends  the less we flatter them  it is by excusing nothing that pure love shows itself.
It is the weak and confused who worship the pseudo-simplicities of brutal directness.
What a wonderful thing it is to have a good friend. He identifies your innermost desires  and spares you the embarrassment of disclosing them to him yourself.
I always felt that the great high privilege  relief and comfort of friendship was that one had to explain nothing.
Nobody who is afraid of laughing  and heartily too  at his friend can be said to have a true and thorough love for him.
Don't believe your friends when they ask you to be honest with them. All they really want is to be maintained in the good opinion they have of themselves.
Only friends will tell you the truths you need to hear to make ... your life bearable.
Keep the other person's well-being in mind when you feel an attack of soul-purging truth coming on.
If it's very painful for you to criticize your friends-you're safe in doing it. But if you take the slightest pleasure in it  that's the time to hold your tongue.
Flatterers look like friends  as wolves like dogs.
Friendship may sometimes step a few paces in advance of truth.
A friend is a person with whom I may be sincere. Before him  I may think aloud.
Oh  the comfort  the inexpressible comfort of feeling safe with a person  having neither to weigh thoughts nor measure words  but pouring them all out  just as they are  chaff and grain together  certain that a faithful hand will take and sift them  keep what is worth keeping  and with a breath of kindness blow the rest away.
One's friends are that part of the human race with which one can be human.
I should like to tell you again of my bitter troubles so that mutually  by recounting our grief  we can lighten each other's sorrow.
There are only two people who can tell you the truth about yourself-an enemy who has lost his temper and a friend who loves you dearly.
Since we are mortal  friendships are best kept to a moderate level  rather than sharing the very depths of our souls.
Forget your woes when you see your friend.
Those that lack friends to open themselves unto are cannibals of their own hearts.
Laugh  and the world laughs with you  weep and you weep alone.
When good cheer is lacking  our friends will be packing.
We have no more right to put our discordant states of mind into the lives of those around us and rob them of their sunshine and brightness than we have to enter their houses and steal their silverware.
'Tis the privilege of friendship to talk nonsense  and have her nonsense respected.
There is no man that imparteth his joys to his friends  but he joyeth the more  and no man that imparteth his griefs to his friends  but he grieveth the less.
I am treating you as my friend  asking you to share my present minuses in the hope I can ask you to share my future pluses.
The most beautiful discovery true friends make is that they can grow separately without growing apart.
Trouble is a sieve through which we sift our acquaintances. Those too big to pass through are our friends.
I have come to esteem history as a component of friendships. In my case at least friendships are not igneous but sedimentary.
No man can be happy without a friend  nor be sure of his friend till he is unhappy.
Friendship makes prosperity more brilliant  and lightens adversity by dividing and sharing it.
The friend of my adversity I shall always cherish most. I can better trust those who helped to relieve the gloom of my dark hours than those who are so ready to enjoy with me the sunshine of my prosperity.
The growth of true friendship may be a lifelong affair.
Constant use had not worn ragged the fabric of their friendship.
Even where the affections are not strongly moved by any superior excellence  the companions of our childhood always possess a certain power over our minds which hardly any later friend can obtain.
In prosperity our friends know us  in adversity we know our friends.
0 summer friendship  whose flat-tering leaves shadowed us in our prosperity  With the least gust  drop off in the autumn of adversity.
1 loathe a friend ... who takes his friend's prosperity but will not voyage with him in his grief.
In prosperity friends do not leave you unless desired  whereas in adversity they stay away of their own accord.
There's no friend like someone who has known you since you were five.
Lots of people want to ride with you in the limo  but what you want is someone who will take the bus with you when the limo breaks down.
I have lost friends  some by death ... others by sheer inability to cross the street.
Friendship was given by nature to be an assistant to virtue  not a companion in vice.
We are fonder of visiting our friends in health than in sickness. We judge less favorably of their characters when any misfortune happens to them  and a lucky hit  either in business or reputation  improves even their personal appearance in our eyes.
Women rely on friends. ... That's where we draw sustenance and find safety. We can count on our women friends when we need a good laugh or a good cry.
The shifts of fortune test the reliability of friends.
Never befriend the oppressed unless you are prepared to take on the oppressor.
Trouble shared is trouble halved.
Real friendship is shown in times of trouble  prosperity is full of friends.
Instead of loving your enemies  treat your friends a little better.
One enemy is too many  a hundred friends too few.
Faithful are the wounds of a friend  but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.
Friends come and go  enemies linger.
The proper office of a friend is to side with you when you are in the wrong. Nearly everybody will side with you when you are in the right.
It isn't easy to be the person who sometimes has to try to preserve your happiness at the expense of your fun.
I like a highland friend who will stand by me not only when I am in the right  but when I am a little in the wrong.
I don't care a damn for your loyal service when you think I am right  when I really want it most is when you think I am wrong.
Nature has been for me  for as long as I remember  a source of solace  inspiration  adventure  and delight  a home  a teacher  a companion.
However deep our devotion may be to parents or to children  it is our contemporaries alone with whom understanding is instinctive and entire.
Writers seldom choose as friends those self-contained characters who are never in trouble  never unhappy or ill  never make mistakes  and always count their change when it is handed to them.
Fortify yourself with a flock of friends! You can select them at random  write to one  dine with one  visit one  or take your problems to one. There is always at least one who will understand  inspire  and give you the lift you may need at the time.
Many a person has held close  throughout their entire lives  two friends that always remained strange to one another  because one of them attracted by virtue of similarity  the other by difference.
Nothing is more limiting than a closed circle of acquaintanceship where every avenue of conversation has been explored and social exchanges are fixed in a known routine.
A man with few friends is only half-developed  there are whole sides of his nature which are locked up and have never been expressed. He cannot unlock them himself  he cannot even discover them  friends alone can stimulate him and open him.
Friendship is mutual blackmail elevated to the level of love.
Scratch a lover  and find a foe.
We need old friends to help us grow old and new friends to help us stay young.
Friendship is almost always the union of a part of one mind with a part of another  people are friends in spots.
It's the folks that depend on us for this and for the other that we most do miss.
Time's passage through the memory is like molten glass that can be opaque or crystallize at any given moment at will: a thousand days are melted into one conversation  one glance  one hurt  and one hurt can be shattered and sprinkled over a thousand.
Kind words can be short and easy to speak  but their echoes are truly endless.
The wise man's ... friendship is capable of going to extremes with many people  evoked as it is by many qualities.
Now and then one sees a face which has kept its smile pure and undefiled. Such a smile transfigures  such a smile  if the artful but know it  is the greatest weapon a face can have.
I cannot concentrate all my friendship on any single one of my friends because no one is complete enough in himself.
We need two kinds of acquaintances  one to complain to  while we boast to the others. -Logan Pearsall Smith No one person can possibly combine all the elements supposed to make up what everyone means by friendship.
Every organism requires an environment of friends  partly to shield it from violent changes  and partly to supply it with its wants.
Without wearing any mask we are conscious of  we have a special face for each friend.
An old friend never can be found  and nature has provided that he cannot easily be lost.
Years and years of happiness only make us realize how lucky we are to have friends that have shared and made that happiness a reality.
To those who know thee not  no words can paint! And those who know thee  know all words are faint!
It is one of the blessings of old friends that you can afford to be stupid with them.
Old friends are the great blessing of one's later years. ... They have a memory of the same events and have the same mode of thinking.
As in the case of wines that improve with age  the oldest friendships ought to be the most delightful.
There is a magic in the memory of a schoolboy friendship. It softens the heart  and even affects the nervous system of those who have no heart.
It is great to have friends when one is young  but indeed it is still more so when you are getting old. When we are young  friends are  like everything else  a matter of course. In the old days we know what it means to have them.
When you are young and without success  you have only a few friends. Then  later on  when you are rich and famous  you still have a few ... if you are lucky.
Old friends  we say  are best  when some sudden disillusionment shakes our faith in a new comrade.
Friends and wine should be old.
Forsake not an old friend  for the new is not comparable to him  a new friend is as new wine.
To be capable of steady friendship or lasting love are the two greatest proofs  not only of goodness of heart  but of strength of mind.
Ah  how good it feels! The hand of an old friend.
The best mirror is an old friend.
I keep my friends as misers do their treasure because  of all the things granted us by wisdom  none is greater or better than friendship.
There is only one thing better than making a new friend  and that is keeping an old one.
The only way not to break a friendship is not to drop it.
To throw away an honest friend is  as it were  to throw your life away.
Hold a true friend with both your hands.
None is so rich as to throw away a friend.
Those friends thou hast  and their adoption tried  grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel.
True friendship is like sound health  the value of it is seldom known until it be lost.
We die as often as we lose a friend.
Affinities are rare. They come but a few times in a life. It is awful to risk losing one when it arrives.
Rather throw away that which is dearest to you  your own life  than turn away a good friend.
Thine own friend  and thy father's friend  forsake not.
The best way to keep your friends is not to give them away.
I never enter a new company without the hope that I may discover a friend  perhaps the friend  sitting there with an expectant smile. That hope survives a thousand disappointments.
Since there is nothing so well worth having as friends  never lose a chance to make them.
If a man does not make new acquaintances as he advances through life  he will soon find himself left alone.
A man's growth is seen in the successive choirs of his friends.
Every man passes his life in the search after friendship.
What causes us to like new acquaintances is not so much weariness of our old ones  or the pleasure of change  as disgust at not being sufficiently admired by those who know us too well  and the hope of being admired more by those who do not know so much about us.
A new acquaintance is like a new book. I prefer it  even if bad  to a classic.
To cement a new friendship  especially between foreigners or persons of a different social world  a spark with which both were secretly charged must fly from person to person  and cut across the accidents of place and time.
A new friend is like new wine  when it has aged you will drink it with pleasure.
He alone has lost the art to live who cannot win new friends.
Five years from now you will be pretty much the same as you are today except for two things: the books you read and the people you get close to.
I want no men around me who have not the knack of making friends.
Yes'm  old friends is always best  'less you can catch a new one that's fit to make an old one out of.
Many a friendship-long  loyal  and self-sacrificing-rested at first upon no thicker a foundation than a kind word.
A home-made friend wears longer than one you buy in the market.
The best time to make friends is before you need them.
Accident counts for much in companionship  as in marriage.
We need new friends. Some of us are cannibals who have eaten their old friends up  others must have ever-renewed audiences before whom to re-enact an ideal version of their lives.
In a world that holds books and babies and canyon trails  why should one condemn oneself to live day in  day out with people one does not like  and sell oneself to chaperone and correct them?
A true friend is the greatest of all blessings  and that which we take the least care of all to acquire.
A man must eat a peck of salt with his friend before he knows him.
Have but few friends  though many acquaintances.